

1. 
20km walk for education


Gladys Sida, 20 years, a South Sudanese residing in village 9 in Imvepi Settlement says she walks 20km to access secondary education in Imvepi Secondary school.

Imvepi secondary school is the only secondary school in Imvepi settlement that has a vast area and all those undergoing secondary education including locals and Refugees access education from the school.

Sida who is a single mother of  child  her child is very weak and took time for him to walk a reason organizations and Oxfam came to her aid and gave financial support.

She received Sh500,000 from  Vision under child protection and another Sh115,000 from Oxfam under Water Sanitation and Hygiene WASH. South Sudanese Refugees with Special Needs receiving my in Imvepi Settlement. Gladys Sida benefited from the support as a single mother to her child. Photo By Robert Ariaka.

Narrating her story to New Vision, Sida says, she leaves her child home under the care of a neighbor and walks 20kms daily from Monday to Friday to access secondary education in Imvepi SS.

According to Sida, the threeyearold child needed special attention and basic needs for sanitation, but she lacked my to procure the items.

She lacked Jericans, basins, and soap, but the support has boosted her capacity to acquire the items. she used part of the my from  Vision to treat her child who is now able to walk, talk, ran around and play with friends.

As a single mother, Sida  the father of the child abandd her the time she conceived but she took a decision to raise the child al and went back to school.

I walk 20kms every day from point H up to point E in the refugee settlement. I wake up at 6:00 am and walk to Imvepi SS to reach in time” Sida .

My main challenge is when it rains; I remain home until the rain stops, then resort to doing other things. Imvepi refugee settlement only has  secondary school.

She appeals to partner organizations to construct a secondary school at point J in villages 1,3,4,5 all in z.1 to avoid walking long distance to point E in z 3.

If I have my, I leave with the neighbor to take care of my child and if there is flour, I give to my neighbor to prepare food for my child, while I go to school,” Sida .

Sida's parents reside in Koboko district but because of the cost of school fees, her parents cannot help her, a reason she decided to settle in Imvepi refugee settlement and raise her own school fees through making bricks, toilet slabs, and liquid soap.

Sida spends six hours in school from 9:00am to 4:00pm. From Yei River state in South Sudan, Sida says she speaks Bari from a tribe called Pojulu.

She gets 24kgs of maize, four cups of cooking oil, 10 cups of beans and 5.6kgs of salt from the  Food Program food distribution project.

Sida arrived in Uganda on February 23, 2016, as a refugee. I immediately disclosed my challenges at the reception center that attracted  Vision to support me and my child. They constructed a house for me and my child”.

Sida who benefited as a vulnerable refugee woman because of her child advises other vulnerable refugees to open up and share their challenges. she  Action Aid trained her to make toilet slabs and she is paid Sh18,000 per slab per day.

In a group of 10 , Sida and her friends are able to raise my from making toilet slabs in the refugee settlement and each member gets paid on the same rate of Sh18,000 per day.

Besides slab making, Sida lay bricks and sales to Norwegian Refugee Council to build houses for other vulnerable persons. She sales each unburnt brick at Sh200.

She has been able to save my to pay her school fees at Imvepi secondary School in the Imvepi refugee settlement.

I pay Sh20,000 as school fees. Other costs are offset by Windle Trust that supports education in the refugee settlement” Sida narrates.





2. Death toll from tribal clashes in Sudan's Darfur rises to 36


Sporadic tribal clashes between Arabs and nonArabs continued Tuesday in Sudan’s West Darfur province, as the death toll climbed to at least three dozen , some of them burned to death, according to a senior health official and a spokesman for a local aid group working in the area.

Some of the 36 dead were children and women,  the official who works in the main hospital in the province. He  that around 60 others were wounded, and that 49 of them were taken to the capital, Khartoum for treatment.

The official spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to brief the media.

The clashes, which erupted over the weekend, pose a challenge to efforts by Sudan's transitional government to end decadeslong rebellions in areas like Darfur. Rebel groups from Darfur have now suspended their peace talks with the government in response to the tribal clashes and called for an investigation.

Sudan is on a fragile path to democracy after a popular uprising led the military to overthrow longtime autocratic President Omar alBashir in April. A militarycivilian government now rules the country.  if its key priorities has been ending the insurgencies in Sudan’s farflung provinces in order to slash military spending, which takes up much of the national budget.

Adam Regal, a spokesman for a local organization that helps run refugee camps in the area,  looting and destruction of property by militias took place in at least three refugee camps in the town of Genena.

He shared footage showing burned properties to the ground, as well as graphic images of burned bodies and wounded  with bloodstained clothes. His group put the toll at 41 dead and more than 100 wounded.

Sudan's ruling Sovereign Council  Monday they would deploy “sufficient” troops to the region to help contain the deadly clashes, which grew out of a skirmish between  ,  of whom, an Arab, was stabbed to death.

Activists and residents  the local government's nightly curfew was not being followed, and that sporadic clashes in Genena reported earlier Tuesday.

 Genena residents told The Associated Press that militias, mostly Arabs, roamed the streets in pickup trucks with mounted machine guns. By Tuesday evening, the violence was subdued amid heavy deployment of troops, enabling families to bury the dead and brought the wounded to hospitals.The residents spoke on condition of anonymity for fear of reprisals.

Regal accused Sudan's paramilitary Rapid Support Forces of intervening in the fighting on the side of the Arab forces.

Gen. Mohammed Hamdan Dagalo, deputy head of the Sovereign Council, commands the paramilitary group, which grew out of the notorious Janjaweed militias.

Rights groups say the RSF had, over the  decade, burned villages and raped and killed civilians during a series of counterinsurgency campaigns.

The Sudanese government and a rebel faction signed a peace deal  week. It was hoped that that deal could could pave the way for peace agreements with more rebel groups.

In this Sunday, Dec. 29, 2019 photo, residents of a refugee camp gather around the burned remains of makeshift structures, in Genena, Sudan. A Sudanese aid group says sporadic tribal clashes between Arabs and nonArabs are continuing in Sudan’s West Darfur province. Adam Regal, a spokesman for the aid group,  Tuesday that the death toll has climbed to least  dozen , including children. He says some of those killed were burned to death. (Organization for the General Coordination of Camps for Displaced and Refugees via AP) | FILE  In this June 15, 2019 file photo, Gen. Mohammed Hamdan Dagalo, the deputy head of the military council, salutes during a rally, in Galawee, northern Sudan. Sudan’s transitional authorities and a rebel faction reached a peace deal, part of government efforts to end the country’s decadeslong civil wars. The government  it signed the deal Tuesday, Dec. 24, 2019, with a faction of the Sudan Revolutionary Front in South Sudan's capital, Juba. The deal could pave the way for other peace agreements with more factions, as well as other rebel groups. (AP Photo, File) | Un grupo de personas festejan el primer aniversario de las protestas que derivaron en el derrocamiento del expresidente Omar alBashir, en Jartum, Sudán, el jueves 19 de noviembre de 2019. (AP Foto)



3.
The humanitarian news you couldn't get enough of in 2019


1. Ten humanitarian crises and trends to watch in 2019

The list of 10 crises and trends we identified as most likely to shape our coverage  and the aid sector  in 2019 included climate displacement, Ethiopia's gamble on reforms, and the calculus of politics and peace in the Democratic Republic of Congo and South Sudan. For a look at how it had all played out by midyear, check out our 10 crises update.

2. Ethiopia coverage

Ethiopia, in the first full year of Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed's government, was among our top 10 crises to watch for 2019. We weren't the only s watching: our coverage of Ethiopia drew consistently high numbers of readers throughout the year, long before Tshirts of Abiy wearing his Nobel Peace Prize medal began appearing on the streets of Addis Ababa in October. Here's a selection of our coverage:

Power shift creates new tensions and Tigrayan fears in Ethiopia

Disagreements over land and resources between the 80 different ethnic groups in Ethiopia have often led to violence and mass displacement, and the fast and unprecedented shift of power led by reformist Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed heightened that strain.

Eritrean refugees defy border closures only to find hardship in Ethiopia

Longdormant border crossings reopened with fanfare between Eritrea and Ethiopia as a symbol of warming relations in 2018 were all closed by October 2019, but that didn't stop a steady flow of Eritrean refugees fleeing across the heavily militarised frontier.

Ethiopia's neglected crisis: No easy way home for doubly displaced Gedeos

A notsomerrygoround of forced evictions by groups of armed young men and governmentpressured returns left tens of thousands of ethnic Gedeos trapped in dire conditions in makeshift shelters across the Oromia region of southern Ethiopia. They number among the country's 2.4 to three million internally displaced.

3. New UN deal with data mining firm Palantir raises protection concerns

When the UN's  Food Programme and CIAlinked software firm Palantir announced a new partnership of free support worth $45 million, with the aim of helping WFP pool its enormous amounts of data and find costsaving efficiencies, critics raised alarms, saying the deal could put 'highly sensitive' data about millions of food aid recipients at risk.

4. Why you don't want to be a Venezuelan woman right now

From murder to maternal mortality, from forced sex work to being sexually abused in prison, here's our look at how Venezuelan women pay a particularly high price to survive in the midst of the oilrich South American country's long and downward spiral.

5. Drought in Africa leaves 45 million in need across 14 countries

Failed rains across eastern Africa, southern Africa, and the Horn of Africa brought another dire season for farmers, increasing food prices and driving up the aid needs of tens of millions of already vulnerable  across the three regions.

6. Investigation: Blunders in Central African Republic sex abuse probe detailed in internal UN review

When The New Humanitarian visited the town of Dekoa in Central African Republic in 2018 to investigate the situation of women and girls who had brought allegations of rape, sexual abuse, and exploitation against UN peacekeepers from Burundi and Gabon in 201516, few if any of the alleged victims knew the status of their claims. In October 2019, TNH obtained an internal UN draft report that revealed a litany of mistakes made by investigators that may explain why so many of the cases have been dismissed and why, according to UN data, there hasn't been a single prosecution.

7. Investigation: UN probe finds Sudan staff member solicited bribes from refugees

A TNH investigation in May 2018 detailed allegations of widespread corruption and exploitation of refugees involving UNHCR staff in Khartoum who were part of the resettlement operations. In August 2019, TNH reported that an internal UN refugee agency investigation into those allegations determined that a staff member had abused their power by soliciting bribes from refugees.

8. Exclusive: Key donors freeze Uganda refugee aid after UN mismanagement scandal

Germany and the UK's Department for International Development, or DFID, froze funding to UNHCR Uganda after becoming aware of issues flagged by TNH in a November 2018 UN audit report. The report found that UNHCR critically mismanaged donor funds in Uganda in 20162017. Uganda is the largest refugeehosting nation in Africa, catering to more than 1.2 million refugees, the vast majority of whom have fled conflict in neighbouring South Sudan and the Democratic Republic of Congo.

9. Indian Ocean Dipole spells flood danger for East Africa

Beginning in October, hundreds of thousands of  in East Africa were affected by heavy rains and floods linked to recordbreaking temperature changes in the Indian Ocean. The culprit? The Indian Ocean Dipole. Don't worry, TNH explains it all in this piece.

10. Exclusive: Oxfam faces $160 million legal threat over Palestine aid project

Oxfam faced a counterterror claim in a New York court. The case, brought by a proIsrael lawyer and activist, alleges that the NGO contravened US law in its work in the Palestinian territory of Gaza. The case is now likely to be dropped, after the US government stepped in and the activist moved for dismissal on 18 December.




4. THE NEEDIEST CASES FUND

As violence broke out in South Sudan, Esther Meling left with her family, some clothes and  pans. In Uganda, she found help starting over.

KAMPALA, Uganda  Esther Meling fled her neighborhood in South Sudan with  of her 4yearold twins on her back and the other on her chest.

She had heard a sound unknown to her  gunshots  and looked outside her home in the capital, Juba, to see  crying and running with their children.

That day in December 2013, she gathered her four children and  sisters. They managed to grab some clothes and  sauce pans as attackers struck.

Running as fast as they could, they passed dead bodies, including those of a neighboring family. Ms. Meling's husband was at work, and her mother lived elsewhere with Ms. Meling's other  sisters and  half brothers; six years later, she still doesn't know what happened to them.

In the chaos, she followed the fleeing crowds, despite not knowing where they were heading. ''Where God is going to give us to stay, we're going to stay there,'' she told her sisters.

In the new nation that month, political tensions between South Sudan's leaders led to clashes in the streets of Juba. The crisis broadened into a societal conflict that propelled violence between ethnic groups, and led to a civil war that killed hundreds of thousands of .

Ms. Meling and her relatives are among the more than  million South Sudanese who fled to Uganda. They escaped on a truck with more than a hundred others. In an interview this month, Ms. Meling, now 34, recounted her escape and her fear that her mother and husband had died in the attacks. ''When I remember those things,'' she , ''I want to shed tears.''

As part of her resettlement in Uganda,  of the most welcoming countries in the  for refugees, Ms. Meling opened a small retail shop in central Kampala in 2017. She had operated her own food business in her home country, but in Uganda, she needed more skills to help her earn enough my to support her family as a single mother. So she signed up for training in baking and business skills from the International Rescue Committee,  of the seven organizations supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.

''Now I can make chapati,'' she , referring to a form of roti. ''I can bake cakes, cookies, doughnuts and the mandazi,'' or Swahili fried bread.

The path to resettlement was overwhelming.

With her  sisters, Ms. Meling, her older daughters, then 7 and 9, and the 4yearold twin girls arrived in Kampala the day after the attack and found themselves homeless. For three months they slept on gunny sacks at a business park in downtown Kampala. To get by, Ms. Meling washed dishes during the day and sold bananas at night. She had previously learned English, which came in handy in Uganda. Thanks to her interactions with customers, she picked up other languages spoken in the country, Luganda and Swahili.

Eventually, Ms. Meling and her sisters were hired as domestic workers at the home of a couple, who provided food and housing for them and the children. They stayed there for six months.

Then at a church  day in 2014, Ms. Meling met Joy Kiden, a fellow South Sudanese immigrant. Ms. Kiden, who is now a communitybased facilitator with the International Rescue Committee, advised Ms. Meling to join a women's savings and loan group so she could safely save her income and earn interest.

About  years later, Ms. Meling rented a home  a single room in the Nsambya suburb of central Kampala  for her extended family. The next year, Ms. Meling relied on her investment in the women's group to start a convenience store in the home, which served as a shop by day (selling items like soda, margarine and curry powder, as well as menstrual products) and a sleeping room at night.  year, she began using the space solely for her business and renting an adjacent room as a bedroom for the family.

Funded by grants, the International Rescue Committee's Economic Recovery and Development program helps refugees and local residents improve their economic wellbeing. Since the program's inception in 2017, more than 900  in Kampala have been trained in tailoring, hairdressing and baking.

''For us in Uganda, we realized that for urban , for you to succeed in accessing them, you need to have them in the group,''  Gerald Lee, an economic recovery and development manager for the organization. ''It is the group that brings that social aspect together.''

As a member of the women's group, Ms. Meling continues to receive business advice from the International Rescue Committee. She took training in baking, and the organization gave the group members an oven to share, which Ms. Meling uses for her new business.

After the training, Ms. Meling set up an extension to her business. Just outside her shop, she sells products like cookies, doughnuts, cakes, beans, pancakes, mandazi and chapati at a small stand. Doughnuts are the most popular among customers, and kabis  light, delicate cookies made using a South Sudanese recipe  are her favorite to make.

She now sells the cooked products at the stand, and supplies chapati to a local construction site and cookies at nearby schools for children to buy during breaks. A year in, her cooking enterprise is improving and sustaining her overall business. Ms. Meling has hired   to help her, and she lets them sleep in the shop room at night.

She hopes to expand her business and  day own land and other property. She would like to inspire others with her story of overcoming poverty through saving. Ms. Meling hasn't named her business yet, but if she does, it  be Together We Can.

''If it is not togetherness, I'd not have got this business,'' she .

The events in Juba six years ago still haunt Ms. Meling, now a mother of six. Even as she rebuilds her life in Kampala, she hopes to return to South Sudan someday with her children, ''so that they can see how their country is, how the country looks,'' she .

''South Sudan was a very good country,'' she . ''If peace came, I'd go back because it's my homeland. Even if that fear is there.''

Donations to The Neediest Cases Fund may be made online, or with a check or over the ph.



5.


New influx of S. Sudanese refugees into Gambella region: ECHO

 Localised clashes between armed forces in South Sudan's Maiwut State have led to a new influx of refugees into Ethiopia's Gambella region, a new report indicates. Transitional shelters for South Sudanese Refugees in Gambella, Ethiopia (IOM Photo)

The European Commission for Humanitarian Aid Operations, (ECHO)  since November, over 3600 refugees, including unaccompanied or separated minors, have arrived in Pamdong reception centre, which is now hosting around 4000 refugees.

Due to the refugee influx, the governmental Administration for Refugee & Returnee Affairs (ARRA) reportedly suspended the registration of new refugees, limiting their access to basic services.

Many newcomers do not want to be relocated in Assossa (Gure Shembole camp). This due to the remoteness of the camp, the ingness to remain closer to their places of origin, and the lack of social nerks and traditional livelihood opportunities for South Sudanese refugees,” ECHO  in the new report.

In addition, the current security situation is not conducive for road transfers from Gambella to Assossa, further noted the aid agency.

Meanwhile ECHO's partners have reportedly scaled up their humanitarian response in Pamdong, but major funding gaps remain across all sectors.

South Sudanese remain the largest refugee population in Ethiopia, totaling 320,957 persons as of end November 2019, with 32% of the refugee population living in Pamdong being children below 4 years.


6. 
Sudanese rebel leader interviewed on peace talks


Malik Agar is  of the northerners who sided with South Sudan during the civil war. He joined the late John Garang's Sudan 's Liberation Movement [SPLM]. After South Sudan's separation, he led the movement's northern branch which became known as the Sudan 's Liberation Movement  North [SPLMN]. That northern offshoot subsequently split into  wings each with the same name. The larger is headed by Abdel Aziz Adam alHilu from the area of Kauda, in the State of South Kordofan's Nuba Mountains. Agar heads the second wing.

Agar signed on 17 December an agreement with the Sudanese government on the delivery of humanitarian assistance to the areas under his movement's control in the southern Blue Nile. He considered this a step toward bolstering trust, paving the way for peace, and inspiring hope that peace is coming. "We started with humanitarian issues because they are related to the suffering of the citizens," he . "We want a peace that the citizens, the displaced, and the refugees can feel. If we manage to deliver food and medicine to them, we would have paved the way for peace and trustbuilding and created hope for an eventual settlement." According to Malik, the protocol signed with the Transitional Government covers other issues in addition to the delivery of humanitarian assistance. These include a cessation of hostilities and formation of committees to monitor implementation. "Humanitarian assistance  flow in from inside and outside Sudan, from organisations inside and outside the country," he .

In June 2017, the Nuba Mountains Liberation Council decided to appoint Abdel Aziz alHilu as SPLMN leader and remove Agar and secretarygeneral Yasir Arman. It decided to ban the  men from entering "the liberated areas" in the southern Blue Nile and South Kordofan. The ban was justified on the grounds that Agar and Arman refuse to include "selfdetermination rights" in the negotiations with the government even though it is what the Nuba Mountains  want. This sparked violent clashes in which dozens were killed because of ethnic mobilisation.

Since that time, the SPLMN split into  movements. "We exerted enormous efforts for a long time to avoid this before the split and when it started," Agar  in this connection. "We offered six initiatives to prevent the split, in addition to the initiatives proposed by South Sudan's President Salva Kiir Mayardit who mediated three meetings with alHilu, in addition to the initiatives made by friendly heads of state. But all failed, and we were unable to agree on a least common denominator. Brother Abdel Aziz is intransigent in his position which is not acceptable to us because we believe the demands he is insisting upon cannot be accomplished or reached."

Agar points out in this connection that the separation of South Sudan from Sudan did not solve the problem but on the contrary worsened it. "If the separation did not solve the problems of South Sudan but made them more intractable, how then can we consider selfdetermination as a mechanism for a solution?" he asks.

AlHilu is demanding selfdetermination for the Blue Nile and South Kordofan through a referendum on independence and the establishment of a secular state. But Agar says "we believe that granting selfdetermination to the  areas, on the pattern of the South Sudan experiment, would be futile and would prolong the war instead of bringing peace closer. There are objective reasons for this belief, including the fact that there is no geographical contiguity between the  areas and because there are Arab tribes there, unlike the situation in South Sudan. There are more differences between the  areas than those in South Sudan."

Concerning the demand for secularism, on which alHilu's wing is adamant in the negotiations with the government, Agar says "we are not against the secularism of the state, and I believe the overwhelming majority of the Sudanese support it. But at the same time we say that secularism and the relationship between the state and religion are not issues that concern the  areas only." He warns of the danger of bilateral discussions about secularism and the relationship between the state and religion. "This is an enormous burden and responsibility," he . "I believe it should be left to all the Sudanese  to decide at a subsequent constitutional conference that is held at the suitable time to enable everybody to make their opinions known," he .

Agar believes that alHilu's demand for the existence of  armies in Sudan  his own army and the Sudanese army  is not practical "because this would need resources the  territories do not possess, unlike the situation in South Sudan which owns 52 per cent of Sudan's petroleum resources and is thus able to finance its army. But in our case, we do not have  percent of the resources that would enable us to finance a huge army in the  territories while at the same time being able to finance development needs." He adds: "These are the issues we disagree about. He has not compromised on them and we have not agreed with him on them."

During the mediation by Salva Kiir to unify the  movements, which still adhere to the slogans and programmes of the mother SPLM in South Sudan, there were leaks about personal dimensions involved and that alHilu insists on excluding certain personalities in order to unify the movement. But Agar  "I know nothing about this, and you can refer back to the source that told you alHilu has reservations on the return of certain individuals." He added: "The problem is that alHilu is raising three issues we have not agreed about yet, but we do not have personal differences with him. I have known him since before the creation of the SPLM, and we were comrades in clandestine action before the SPLM was formed. We worked together for more than 30 years in the SPLM after it was formed, and I do not think that there are issues of contention between us as individuals. These are organisational issues, but the Sudanese like to personalise things although we do not have any personal considerations. Abdel Aziz is not an enemy of ours and he is a longtime comrade in struggle. He is not among our enemies, whether we agree with him or not, and we fully respect him."

Agar regrets the split that has turned the SPLMN into  delegations sitting separately to negotiate on the same issues. He says the split was pointless. "It has weakened us politically and militarily, and we had no need for it to begin with," he .

He says the agreement with the Transitional Government on the delivery of humanitarian aid applies to the areas his movement controls. "There are other areas alHilu controls in which we have no presence, so the agreement  not apply in these areas," he .

Civilian entities from central, northern, and eastern Sudan are participating in the Juba negotiations. They are not armed movements, and their introduction in the talks is considered by many as a distraction, particularly since their "demands" can be solved from Khartoum. But Agar believes their involvement contributes to solving Sudan's problem in a practical manner. "The presence of all the powers and all those that want to join in the negotiations would be important if we want to solve the Sudanese problem and the various outstanding demands, particularly those of the various regions" he . "These are equally important to the issues pertaining to war and peace. We should deal with them so that the signature of the protocols would mean that we have worked out a comprehensive agreement that addresses them."

A paradox is perhaps that most of the movements and groups negotiating in Juba came from Khartoum. A superficial questir may ask "Why are you negotiating in Juba if you came from Khartoum?" Agar answers: "Yes, all the movements were in Khartoum but did not conduct any negotiations there because the platform was set for Juba and the mediator is here in Juba. The delegations were in Khartoum to clear the atmosphere and build trust, not to negotiate."

Agar expressed optimism about reaching a peace agreement. He bases himself on the experience of negotiating with the regime of the deposed Omar alBashir. "In a brief period we have completed three documents, something we could not do in 17 negotiating rounds spanning seven years with the former regime," he . "This happened because we are negotiating this time as partners. The former regime used to bargain with us over 'some powers' so that it may keep all the powers to itself without any serious solutions to the issues of war and peace," he . "I believe the present government should deal with the causes of the war, not just powersharing."

Agar has not returned to Sudan since he left it in September 2011. But he  at the end of his interview with AlSharq alAwsat in Juba "I shall return to Khartoum when the circumstances are opportune. I can go anywhere, but I shall go to Khartoum."



7.
Utah County Commission votes to accept refugees PROVO  The Utah County...

(c) 2019 Deseret News Publishing Co.
Utah County Commission votes to accept refugees PROVO  The Utah County Commission followed the governor's lead by unanimously passing a resolution to clarify the county welcomes refugees. The commission signed a consent letter to accept refugees into Utah County Dec. 17, The Daily Herald reports. Utah Gov. Gary Herbert wrote an Oct. 24 letter to President Donald Trump saying the state would continue accepting and resettling refugees. Herbert's letter followed a Sept. 26 executive order issued by Trump that the federal government should resettle refugees only in jurisdictions where both state and local governments have consented to receive refugees under the State Department's Reception and Placement Program. Utah County Commissir Nathan Ivie believes the county has an obligation to help those fleeing hardship or persecution, he . "I don't feel it's morally responsible to turn our backs on the needy," Ivie .

Utah resettles refugees from around the , but has large communities of  from Somalia, Congo, Iraq, Sudan and South Sudan,  Asha Parekh, director of the refugee services division of the Utah Department of Workforce Services.  Associated Press S.L. ASKING FOR INPUT ON AFFORDABLE HOUSING SALT LAKE CITY  Residents are being asked to offer their ideas about how the city can encourage the construction of more affordable housing.  The city's Planning Division is gathering the input to guide modifications to the city's zoning ordinance, which may include an affordable housing overlay to the city's existing regulations.  While the city is experiencing tremendous residential growth, the availability of affordable housing is not keeping up with demand.  That fact was acknowledged by residents in a 2019 survey that ranked affordable housing as a top priority, and data from a housing plan adopted in 2017 shows that nearly half of all renters are burdened by the cost of housing and that there is an increasing gap between rental rates and incomes. The survey, which can be found at slc.gov/planning,  be open until Friday, Jan. 15. It should take no more than five minutes to complete.  Todd Curtis LEARN TO MANAGE PAIN AT 6WEEK WORSKHOP SPRINGVILLE  The Utah County Health Department is offering a free sixweek chronic pain selfmanagement workshop designed to help participants better manage pain. The classes  be held from 6 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. at the Springville Library, 45 S. Main, on Thursdays between Jan. 23 and Feb. 27. To register, log on to livingwell.utah.gov or call 8018517095.     



8. UN official: Past decade has seen human rights `backlash'

The past decade has seen a backlash against human rights on every front, especially the rights of women and the LGBT communities, according to a top U.N. human rights official.

Andrew Gilmour, the outgoing assistant secretarygeneral for human rights,  the regression of the past 10 years hasn’t equaled the advances that began in the late 1970s — but it is serious, widespread and regrettable.

He pointed to “populist authoritarian nationalists” in North America, South America, Europe and Asia, who he  are taking aim at the most vulnerable groups of society, including Myanmar’s Rohingya Muslims, Roma, and Mexican immigrants, as well as gays and women. He cited leaders who justify torture, the arrests and killing of journalists, the brutal repressions of demonstrations and “a whole closing of civil society space.”

“I never thought that we would start hearing the terms ‘concentration camps’ again,” Gilmour told The Associated Press in an exclusive interview. “And yet, in  countries of the  there’s a real question.”

He didn’t name them but appeared to be referring to China’s internment camps in western Xinjiang province, where an estimated 1 million members of the country's predominantly Muslim Uighur minority are being held; and detention centers on the United States' southern border, where mostly Central American migrants are being held while waiting to apply for asylum. Both countries strongly deny that concentration camplike conditions exist.

Gilmour is leaving the United Nations on Dec. 31 after a 30year career that has included posts in hot spots such as Iraq, South Sudan, Afghanistan, the Palestinian territories and West Africa. Before taking up his current post in 2016, he served for four years as director of political, peacekeeping, humanitarian and human rights affairs in former SecretaryGeneral Ban Kimoon’s office.

Despite his dim view of the past decade, Gilmour — a Briton who previously worked in politics and journalism —  he didn’t want to appear “relentlessly negative.”

“The progress of human rights is certainly not a linear progression, and we have seen that,” he . “There was definite progression from the late ’70s until the early years of this century. And we’ve now seen very much the countertendency of the  few years.”

Gilmour  human rights were worse during the Cold War between the U.S. and the former Soviet Union, “but there wasn't a pushback as there is now.”

He pointed to the fact that in the past eight years or so, many countries have adopted laws designed to restrict the funding and activities of nongovernmental organizations, especially human rights NGOs.

And he alleged that powerful U.N. member states stop human rights officials from speaking in the Security Council, while China and some other members “go to extraordinary lengths to prevent human rights defenders (from) entering the (U.N.) building even, let al participate in the meetings.”

In March 2018, for example, Russia used a procedural maneuver to block thenU.N. High Commissir for Human Rights Zeid Ra'ad alHussein from addressing a formal meeting of the Security Council, the U.N.’s most powerful body, Gilmour .

Zeid was able to deliver his hardhitting speech soon after, but only at a hurriedly organized informal council meeting where he decried "mindnumbing crimes" committed by all parties in Syria.

Gilmour cited the United States' refusal to authorize the council to hold a meeting on the human rights situation in North Korea, a move that effectively killed the idea.

The rights of women and gays are at stake, Gilmour . He  nationalist authoritarian populist leaders such as Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban, Russian President Vladimir Putin and Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, have made “derogatory comments” about both groups.

He  the U.S. is “aggressively pushing” back against women's reproductive rights both at home and abroad. The result, he , is that countries fearful of losing U.S. aid are cutting back their work on women’s rights.

Gilmour pointed out a report issued in September that cited 48 countries for punishing human rights defenders who have cooperated with the U.N.

"I feel that we really need to do more — everybody ... to defend those courageous defenders,” he .

Gilmour  the U.N. should stand up when it comes to major violations of international law and major violations of human rights, but “I have found it extremely difficult to do so in all circumstances.”

He  he was happy to hear that the new U.S. ambassador to the U.N., Kelly Craft, feels strongly about ensuring human rights.

“And I do hope that she  be gently and firmly held to that high standard," he .

Gilmour  that after his departure from the U.N, he  take a fellowship at Oxford’s All Souls College, where he  focus on the importance of uniting human rights and environmental rights groups.

“The human rights impact of climate change — it’s going to be so monumental,” he .

As he relinquishes his post, Gilmour  he is counting on younger generations to take up the mantle of human rights and fight for other causes aimed at improving the .

“What gives me hope as we start a new decade is that there  be a surge in youth activism that  help  to get courage, and to stand up for what they believe in,” he .

ABP Pvt. Ltd.

Document ABPTEL0020191229efct0001k




9. Drawing a line

An artist on her ongoing concerns pertaining to the fluidity of borders and its psychological impact on .

Over the  decadeandahalf, artist Reena Kallat has explored the fluidity of borders through her works, meditating on how history plays an integral role in shaping geography. The recent show, Blind Spots at Fort's Chemould Presscott Road, which concludes tomorrow, too, further explores the fluidity of contested boundaries through diverse media such as drawing, photography, sculpture, video and textbased installations. Over to the artist:

3 Questions with Reena Kallat

Blind Spots highlights your geopolitical concerns again. What draws you to the subject?

The line is an integral part of an artist's tool kit and yet when drawn across territory decides the fate of citizens on either side. While borders are a political construct, I've primarily been interested in the psychological social barriers between , more than the physical borders themselves.

My father was born in Lahore and had moved to the Indian side of Punjab prePartition, but his elder brother had to move during Partition. Growing up, I was fascinated by stories about the homes they lived in. Every three years, owing to my grandfather being a sessions court judge, they were posted to a new place. Yet, like with most families, there was silence around Partition. I began examining the impact of the legacy of Partition when my own experience of living in Mumbai changed with growing divisiveness between religious communities after the riots in 1992 and 2002.

In the 10part work Leaking Lines, besides the Radcliffe Line, Durand or the McMahon Line, I began looking at several others such as the MasonDixon line, the Blue Line and the Green Line. While on the  hand, we've blurred these lines through trade, technology and commerce, there is a strong reemergence of national borders amidst us today. I've worked with the electric wire as my medium, which is a transmitter of energy, a communication cable that connects us, and yet, here it morphs into barbed wire and fences.



The scale and ambition of the works are institutional and expressed through various mediums. Do you, as an artist, feel the medium, takes away from the matter?

The relationship of the viewer to the work and scale plays an important role in how the work gets received. I first began working with the Preamble to the Constitution of India in 2003, at a time when there was resistance towards north Indian migrants within the city of Mumbai and I wanted to remind ourselves of the foundational values and principles embedded within this most inclusive document.

In the multichannelled video installation Blind Spots, I'm revisiting the promise of democracy at a time when most are under strain. It reveals pairs of Snellen eye charts where  alphabet at a time appears as a fragmented recital metaphorically indicative of our partial, halftruths and fractured understanding of the whole. These are the preambles to the constitutions of countries such as USCuba, SudanSouth Sudan, BangladeshIndia, SerbiaCroatia, North and South Korea besides IndiaPakistan. As the founding promises within each pair of nationstates are revealed  alphabet at a time, the shared principles such as equality, justice, liberty common to both preambles morph into braillelike dots. The work invites audiences to reflect on how we seem to have lost sight of these common values and aspirations that are universal, which cut across the idea of sovereign nation states.

What inspired the title of the show?

Blind Spots is derived from the physiological blind spot in medical literature or the missing compnt in our vision. No   see exactly alike and the brain interpolates the blind spot based on other information to conceptually complete the gap and derive meaning. I think in these polarised times, where the gaps in our understanding of the truth is increasingly widening, I hope through art we can still find a space to reflect upon our shortcomings, our perceptual limitations in understanding other perspectives. If we tune into signals from the natural  they would remind us of our interconnectedness and interdependence on each other. The sound sculptures in Blind Spots are modelled on preradar acoustic devices built during the  wars to track sounds of enemy aircrafts, but I have replaced them with birdsongs. The idea is to subvert notions of war by having national birds singing to each other across borders.

Blind Spots ends on Dec 28. Attend an informal walkthrough and conversation with the artist at 4.30 pm at Chemould Prescott Road, Fort. Call: 2200 0211




10. HUMAN RIGHTS BACKLASH WORRIES TOP UN OFFICIAL

The past decade has seen a backlash against human rights on every front, especially the rights of women and the LGBTQI+ community, according to a top United Nations human rights official.

Andrew Gilmour, the outgoing assistant secretarygeneral for human rights, pointed to populist authoritarian nationalists in North and South America, Europe and Asia, who he  were taking aim at the most vulnerable groups of society, including Myanmar's Rohingya Muslims, Roma, and Mexican immigrants, as well as gays and women.

He cited leaders who justified torture, the arrests and killing of journalists, the brutal repression of demonstrations and "a whole closing of civil society space".

"I never thought that we would start hearing the terms 'concentration camps' again," Gilmour . "And yet, in  countries of the  there's a real question."

He didn't name them, but appeared to be referring to China's internment camps in western Xinjiang province, where an estimated 1 million members of the country's predominantly Muslim Uighur minority are being held; and detention centres on the United States' southern border, where mostly Central American migrants are being held while waiting to apply for asylum.

Gilmour is leaving the UN on December 31 after a 30year career that has included posts in hotspots such as Iraq, South Sudan, Afghanistan, the Palestinian Territories and West Africa.

Despite his dim view of the past decade, he  he didn't want to appear "relentlessly negative".

"The progress of human rights is certainly not a linear progression, and we have seen that," he . "There was definite progression from the late '70s until the early years of this century. And we've now seen very much the countertendency of the  few years."

He  many countries had adopted laws designed to restrict the funding and activities of non governmental organisations, especially human rights NGOs.

He alleged that powerful UN member states stopped human rights officials from speaking to the UN Security Council, while China and some other members "go to extraordinary lengths to prevent human rights defenders [from] entering the (UN) building even, let al participate in the meetings".

In March 2018, for example, Russia used a procedural manoeuvre to block thenUN High Commissir for Human Rights Zeid Ra'ad alHussein from addressing a formal meeting of the security council

Gilmour cited the US's refusal to authorise the council to hold a meeting on the human rights situation in North Korea, a move that effectively killed the idea.

The rights of women and gays were at stake, Gilmour . He  nationalist authoritarian populist leaders such as Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban, Russian President Vladimir Putin and Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan had made "derogatory comments" about both groups.

He  the US was "aggressively pushing" back against women's reproductive rights both at home and abroad. The result was that countries fearful of losing US aid were cutting back their work on women's rights.

Gilmour pointed out a report issued in September that cited 48 countries for punishing human rights defenders who had cooperated with the UN. "I feel that we really need to do more  everybody . . . to defend those courageous defenders."

Gilmour  the UN should stand up when it came to major violations of international law and major violations of human rights.

He  he was counting on younger generations to take up the mantle of human rights and fight for other causes aimed at improving the .

"What gives me hope as we start a new decade is that there  be a surge in youth activism that  help  to get courage, and to stand up for what they believe in."  AP




11. Sudan, Rebels Agree Plan to End Conflict in Darfur

Sudanese villagers walk in the wartorn town of Golo in the thickly forested mountainous area of Jebel Marra in central Darfur on June 19, 2017. (AFP) The Sudanese government and nine rebel groups on Saturday signed an agreement on a roadmap towards ending the bloody conflict in the Darfur region.

The deal outlines different issues the parties  need to negotiate during the latest round of talks in Juba.

"We believe this is an important step,"  Ahmed Mohamed, the chief negotiator on Darfur matters from the Sudan Revolutionary Front or SRF, a coalition of nine rebel groups involved in talks with the Sudanese government.

"This step no doubt  help the process to achieve a ing peace in Darfur and it  enable the transitional process in Sudan to move smoothly without hindrances," Mohamed told AFP.

Among the issues they agreed need to be tackled are the root causes of the conflict, the return of refugees and internally displaced , power sharing and the integration of rebel forces into the national army.

The deal states that the Sudanese government  address land issues, such as the destruction of property during the conflict.

Khartoum has been negotiating with different rebel groups in the capital of South Sudan for  weeks, in the latest round of efforts to end conflicts in Darfur, Blue Nile and South Kordofan.

Rebels in these areas fought bloody campaigns against marginalization by Khartoum under ousted president Omar alBashir.

The Darfur fighting broke out in 2003 when ethnic minority rebels took up arms against Bashir's government.

Human rights groups say Khartoum targeted suspected prorebel ethnic groups with a scorched earth policy, raping, killing, looting and burning villages.

Bashir, who is behind bars for corruption and awaiting trial on other charges, is wanted by the International Criminal Court in The Hague for his role in the conflict that left around 300,000  dead and 2.5 million displaced, according to the United Nations.

However, there is fresh hope for peace after Sudan's transitional government, led by Prime Minister Abdalla Hamdok, made peace in these areas a priority.

"We failed to achieve a ing peace for Darfur simply because the previous government was not ready to take strategic decisions to resolve the conflict in Darfur,"  Mohamed who has been involved in previous failed peace talks.

General Samsedine Kabashi, the top Sudanese government representative at the talks : "We are committed to ending all the problems in Darfur and ensuring that we restore peace and stability not only in Darfur but across all parts of the country."

The peace process began in August and mediators aim to reach a final deal by February 2020.



12. 
2019: A Year Of Political Turmoil, Upheaval ... And Hope

As we come to the end of 2019, it is time to review the year that was. It was in many ways a fairly tumultuous year in  affairs, but not greatly different from those that immediately preceded it. We continue to live in interesting, exciting and often depressing times.

The headlines were once again dominated by he who can truly be called the elephant in the room: Donald Trump. His ability to serially insult other leaders was once again much in evidence. His words served to undermine the solidarity of the Western alliance of nations. His kowtowing to dictators such as Russia's Vladimir Putin and North Korea's Kim Jong Un left a very bad taste in the mouths of many. His attempt to bribe the president of Ukraine into helping him demonize his Democratic oppnt Joe Biden brought his office into disrepute and resulted in the House of Representatives impeaching him. While it is unlikely that the Republicancontrolled Senate  vote to convict him, his presidency has already been badly tarred. It is very much to be hoped that he has been sufficiently damaged that American voters  show him the door in the 2020 presidential election.

The Brexit saga continued unabated throughout the year. When Prime Minister Theresa May resigned after having suffered three defeats in the House of Commons, she was succeeded by a mendacious populist in the form of Boris Johnson. He, too, went on to experience three parliamentary defeats, but he clung to power and called a general election. In a campaign notable for its nastiness and divisiveness, Johnson promised voters to "get Brexit d." He promised vast new investments in Britain's struggling National Health Service and a variety of other social services. But as The Economist noted in a recent article, "Mr. Johnson is in many ways the ideal politician for a posttruth age, because nobody expects him to keep his word. He exists in a  of usversusthem and of emotion rather than reason, a  in which cheering  up is more important than depressing them with facts." That such a person could win a commanding majority in the House of Commons is a depressing commentary on the current state of British politics.

But beyond the politics of the Brexit debate, there are the policy issues which are all too often ignored in the heat of battle. Apart from wanting to leave the European Union, what do the Brexiters want for the country and the future? There the answers are as muddled and confusing as the  putting them forward. As a commentator in the Globe and Mail noted following the announcement of the results of the election: "And so Britain is left with a driver very much in the driving seat, a powerful engine at his command, but with no particular destination in mind." This confusion  take a heavy toll on Britain's future international relations and on its place in the . It  mean that "getting Brexit d"  hardly be the final chapter in this dismal episode in Britain's history. We  no doubt be returning to it at the end of 2020.

The election of President Emmanuel Macron had been widely hailed as bringing on to the  scene a true champion of a liberal democratic order. Macron has lived up to much of his promise, but has run into some serious head winds. Domestically, his government was confronted by the oftenviolent protests of the socalled "gilets jaunes" movement, which went on for months on end. Macron is now facing mass demonstrations by the country's major labour unions, which are opposing his plans to reform France's pension regime. In foreign policy, he set the cat among the pigeons with  remarks he made late in the year. The first was that NATO was "brain dead." This was variously interpreted as a criticism of the United States and its failure to exercise leadership in the Alliance, and as yet another plug for his ambition to create a purely European defence alliance. His second remark was that the first priority of Western defence leaders should be terrorism rather than Russian adventurism. He even went so far as to suggest that the time had come for NATO to resume a political dialogue with the Kremlin. These ideas went over like the proverbial lead balloon with the Eastern European members of the Alliance. These comments, although disruptive, did have  redeeming result in the form of a decision by NATO to undertake an indepth review of its strategy and purposes.

Unfortunately, populists continued to make headway in other parts of Europe in 2019. Propnts of the Alternative for Germany achieved depressing results in a number of state elections. Populist parties continued to exercise power in Italy. And the populist governments in Poland and Hungary carried on with their programs of illiberal reform in the face of widespread public opposition. The governments of Italy, Poland and Hungary are testing the rules of the European Union more than they have ever been tested before. The European Union  be faced with many serious challenges in the year ahead, and Brexit  not necessarily be the most serious.

Beyond North America and Europe, the scene is, if anything, much darker. Bloody civil wars carried on unabated in Syria and Yemen, with catastrophic humanitarian results. The overthrow of  longserving presidents in Algeria and Sudan has left these countries in a state of political chaos. Widespread political unrest is the order of the day in Iran and Iraq, and the efforts of their governments to maintain order have resulted in the deaths and wounding of thousands of  at the hands of security forces. The governments of Egypt and Saudi Arabia have continued to brutally repress and imprison all of their political oppnts. And the latest pronouncements of Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu have made more remote than ever the prospects of a solution to the IsraeliPalestinian conflict. In short, in 2019 the Middle East remained  of the most cursed regions on earth.

The continent of Africa was only somewhat less grim. It nevertheless continued to experience a number of tragedies. The civil wars in the Democratic Republic of Congo, South Sudan and Somalia went on as before, claiming thousands of lives and creating intolerable situations for the civilian populations. Despite the best efforts of the United Nations, Mali remains the scene of Islamist extremist attacks and of more general ethnic rivalries. The extremists of Boko Haram and systemic mismanagement have contributed to making oilrich Nigeria  of the saddest countries on the continent. And a combination of bad weather conditions and horrendous government has driven most of the population of Zimbabwe to the brink of starvation. And those same weather conditions are adversely affecting the populations of several countries in Southern and Eastern Africa.

There was a bit of bad news emanating from Asia. There was no end in sight to the armed conflicts in Afghanistan. Pakistan was experiencing  of its frequent financial crises and was once again having to turn to the International Mtary Fund for a bailout. India's Hindu Nationalist government carried on with its campaign to transform the country into a Hindu state as opposed to the secular state created by its founders. Its clearly antiMuslim legislation on Kashmir and on citizenship has provoked widespread protests, many of which have turned violent. India's 200 million Muslims now live in fear of what may come next. Myanmar's Rohingya live in terror as 700,000 of them experience yet another year as refugees living in makeshift camps in Bangladesh. The citizens of Hong Kong and the Uighurs of northwest China continue to experience repression at the hands of the Chinese government.

To counteract all of these dismal developments, there were a few good news stories in 2019. The drawnout negotiations of the new U.S., Mexico and Canada trade agreement were finally brought to a successful conclusion and the agreement should be ratified in the new year. This outcome solidifies Chrystia Freeland's status as Canada's star cabinet minister. The end of the trial of SNCLavalin  allow the country to move forward from a particularly sad chapter in its political and economic history. What was perhaps the most exhilarating story of 2019 was the upsurge of young  around the  demanding action on climate change. Their forceful yet peaceful demonstrations gave the lie to the notion that the younger generation is apathetic. As exemplified by the young Swedish activist Greta Thunberg, they sent a powerful message to their elders that climate change had to be addressed urgently if the future of the planet is to be saved.

Finally, at home there was the Liberal victory in the October general election and the subsequent demise of Conservative leader Andrew Scheer, both of which are good news stories in my book.



13.
Migrants are facing ‘walls of indifference’, Pope warns

The Pope has warned that migrants fleeing injustice in the hope of finding a better life are being met with “walls of indifference” in his Christmas Day message.

Pope Francis offered a message of hope against the darkness “in human hearts” and in conflicts in large parts of the , from the Middle East to the Americas to Africa.

In his annual Christmas Day message, the Pope called for an easing of the crisis in Lebanon, social tensions in Iraq and the “grave humanitarian crisis” in Yemen.

Addressing tens of thousands of  gathered in St Peter’s Square, he noted that migrants around the  have been forced by injustice “to emigrate in the hope of a secure life”.

Instead of finding acceptance, migrants often face abuse, enslavement and torture in “inhumane detention camps” and death during their journeys, he .

And once they arrive in “places where they might have hoped for a dignified life” they “instead find themselves before walls of indifference”, the Pope warned.

In an extraordinary message, Pope Francis, along with  other religious leaders, urged the rival chiefs of South Sudan to maintain a pledge to form a coalition government early next year.

A peace deal to end a fiveyear civil war that has killed close to 400,000  was signed  year, but a November deadline to form a coalition government was extended to February as key aspects of the peace deal still need to be resolved.

The message, issued separately from the traditional papal Christmas address, was signed by the leader of the Church of England, Archbishop of Canterbury Justin Welby, and the Rev John Chalmers, exmoderator of the Church of Scotland.

Mr Welby used his Christmas Day sermon to reflect on the maltreatment of society’s most vulnerable, as well as the impact of violence at home and abroad, including the London Bridge terror attack  month.

He told worshippers at Canterbury Cathedral that darkness is a “monster that lies” before referring to the killings of 25yearold Jack Merritt and 23yearold Saskia Js by Usman Khan.



14. 
Pope Francis prays for Syria, Venezuela and 's migrants in Christmas message of hope against 'darkness in human hearts' as he leads global celebrations at the Vatican

 Pope Francis assured the faithful that God loves every  'even the worst of us'  following a year of scandals

 At the midnight mass he unveiled a statue of the newborn Jesus lying in a nativity scene at the foot of the altar

 Catholics across the  joined the Vatican in prayer, including at  of the churches bombed in Sri Lanka

The Pope today urged the  to let the light of Christmas pierce the 'darkness in human hearts' as he led Christian celebrations around the .

The 83yearold pontiff singled out conflicts in Venezuela, Ukraine and Syria as well as armed conflicts ravaging many African countries as he appealed for peace in troubled hotspots.

Francis delivered his Christmas Day message hours after assuring the faithful that God loves every  'even the worst of us'  following a year of scandals and opposition.

The pontiff led global celebrations as worshippers gathered around the  to celebrate the birth of Jesus, beginning in Bethlehem  night and continuing today in Sri Lanka where worshipers marked the first Christmas since the Easter Sunday terror attack.

The Pope offered a Christmas message of hope against darkness that cloaks conflicts and relationships in large parts of the  from the Middle East to the Americas to Africa.

He told tens of thousands of tourists, pilgrims and Romans gathered in St Peter's Square for the annual Christmas Day message that 'the light of Christ is greater' than the darkness 'in human hearts' and 'in economic, geopolitical and ecological conflicts'.

Francis was flanked by Cardinal Renato Raffaele Martino, president of the papal council for migrants, and Cardinal Konrad Krajewski, the pope's official almsgiver.

The pope cited the Syrian  'who still see no end to the hostilities that have rent their country over the  decade', as well as Israel, where Jesus 'was born as the saviour of mankind and where so many   struggling but not discouraged  still await a time of peace, security and prosperity'.

Francis called for an easing of the crisis in Lebanon, social tensions in Iraq and the 'grave humanitarian crisis' in Yemen.

He noted that a number of countries in the Americas 'are experiencing a time of social and political upheaval', citing 'the beloved Venezuelan , long tried by their political and social tensions'.

The pope noted migrants forced by injustice 'to emigrate in the hope of a secure life'.

Instead of finding acceptance, Francis , injustice continues along their journey, where they often face abuse, enslavement and torture in 'inhumane detention camps' and death during dangerous sea and desert crossings.

And once migrants arrive in 'places where they might have hoped for a dignified life' ... they 'instead find themselves before walls of indifference', he .

The pope offered prayers of hope for the  of Africa, including those in Congo 'torn by continuing conflicts' and the  of Burkina Faso, Mali, Niger and Nigeria, where  have been 'persecuted for their religious faith'.

And in an extraordinary message, Francis, along with  other religious leaders, urged the rival chiefs of South Sudan to maintain a pledge to form a coalition government early next year.

A peace deal to end a fiveyear civil war that has killed close to 400,000  was signed  year, but a November deadline to form a coalition government was extended to February as key aspects of the peace deal still need to be resolved.

'May Christ bring his light to the many children suffering from war and conflicts in the Middle East and in various countries of the ,' Francis  in his traditional message.

The Pope and Archbishop of Canterbury Justin Welby sent joint wishes of 'peace and prosperity' to South Sudan as negotiations faltered between the African country's government and rebels.

Typhoon Phanf meanwhile brought a wet, miserable and terrifying holiday season to the central Philippines, stranding tens of thousands of .

In France, Christmas was a gloomy affair as a crippling transport strike against pension reform was set to enter its fourth week, ruining the plans of many to gather with family and friends.

Notre Dame cathedral in Paris missed out on a Christmas mass for the first time since the French Revolution after the landmark was ravaged by a disastrous fire in April this year.

 night Francis processed down the center aisle of St Peter's Basilica late Tuesday and unveiled a statue of the newborn Jesus lying in a nativity scene at the foot of the altar.

Francis  the birth of Jesus, which Christians commemorate on Christmas Day, was a reminder of God's unconditional love for every, 'even the worst of us.'

'God does not love you because you think and act the right way,' he .

'You may have mistaken ideas, you may have made a complete mess of things, but the Lord continues to love you.'

At the same time though, he called for the faithful to allow themselves to be transformed by Jesus' 'crazy love' and to stop trying to change others.

'May we not wait for our neighbors to be good before we do good to them, for the church to be perfect before we love her, for others to respect us before we serve them. Let us begin with ourselves,' he .

Francis has frequently emphasized his call for 'personal conversion' in his reformminded papacy, believing that true reform cannot be imposed from on high, but discerned from within.

He has similarly denounced the 'holierthanthou' attitude of doctrinal and legal purists, who have chafed at his progressive openings to gays, divorcees and  on the margins.

Those critics have seized on the sexual abuse and financial scandals that have buffeted the papacy of the 83yearold Jesuit pope.

The scandals are likely to follow Francis into 2020, with developments in a corruption investigation involving hundreds of millions of dollars in donations to the Holy See and the release of a report on what the Vatican knew about exCardinal Theodore McCarrick, who was defrocked for sexually abusing adults and minors,

Francis' latenight Mass kicks off a busy few days for the pope, including a Christmas Day speech, noontime prayers, a New Year's Eve vigil and a Jan. 1 Mass.

This comes as pilgrims from around the  gathered in the biblical city of Bethlehem, revered by Christians as the birthplace of Jesus, to celebrate.

Thousands of Palestinians and foreigners converged on the 'little town' in the Israelioccupied West Bank, with festivities taking place in and around the Church of the Nativity.

Archbishop Pierbattista Pizzaballa, apostolic administrator of the Latin Patriarch of Jerusalem and the most senior Roman Catholic official in the Middle East, arrived from the holy city at the head of a procession.

Bethlehem is close to Jerusalem, but cut off from it by Israel's separation barrier.

After crossing through the wall, Pizzaballa  it was a difficult time but there was reason for 'hope'.

'We see in this period the weakness of politics, enormous economic problems, unemployment, problems in families,' he .

'On the other side, when I visit families, parishes, communities, I see a lot of commitment... for the future.

'Christmas is for us to celebrate the hope.'

In the square outside the church, a few thousand  watched in the winter sun as Palestinian scouts paraded to the sound of drums. A group of 20 New Zealanders sang carols in front of the 15metre Christmas tree.

As evening fell, crowds thinned, with the church closing to tourists ahead of midnight mass, which Pizzaballa was to lead.

Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas was expected to attend.

Andrea, a young Portuguese tourist, inspected her pictures from the grotto, taken shortly before the doors closed.

'We waited  hours for only a minute on site,' she .

The first church was built on the site of Jesus's birth in the fourth century, though it was replaced after a fire in the sixth century.

This year celebrations were bolstered by the return of a wooden fragment believed to be from the manger of Jesus.

Sent as a gift to Pope Theodore I in 640, the piece had been in Europe for more than 1,300 years before being returned  month, Francesco Patton, chief custodian for the Holy Land, .

'We venerate the relic because (it) reminds us of the mystery of incarnation, to the fact that the son of God was born of Mary in Bethlehem more than 2,000 years ago,' Patton told AFP at the time.

In the square by the church, Palestinian tourism minister Rula Maayah told AFP it had been a good year, with 3.5 million tourists visiting the city.

But fewer Christians from the Gaza Strip were in attendance than in previous years, as Israel had granted permits to just around 300 of the some 900  who applied,  Wadie Abunassar, an adviser to church leaders in the Holy Land.

The Palestinian territories of the West Bank and Gaza are separated by Israeli territory and crossing between them requires hardtoget permits.

Around the ,  were getting ready to ring in the Christmas festivities.

In Sri Lanka, worshippers attend the Christmas Eve midnight mass at St Anthony's Shrine at Kotahena in Colombo.

The church was the targeted in a series of suicide bombs in Sri Lanka on Easter Sunday this year.

Dramatic footage showed a vehicle erupting into a fireball around 50 metres from church.

On April 21, seven suicide bombers launched the attacks killing 290  and injuring more than 500.

Bs ripped through landmarks around the capital Colombo, and on Sri Lanka's east coast, targeting Christians, hotel guests and foreign tourists.

In Lithuania, Christians gathered to watch a procession before attending a Christmas mass at the Cathedral Basilica in Vilnius.

In Iraq a priest lead a Christmas Eve service at the church of Um al Noor in Arbil, the northern Iraqi city and capital of the autonomous Kurdish region.

In the central Philippines, where Christmas is widely celebrated among the country's Catholics, thousands of  were warned to leave their homes as a severe tropical storm approached.






15. Nuba Refugees in South Sudan Forced to Return Home

Dire humanitarian conditions in Yida Refugee Camp in South Sudan has forced hundreds of refugees from the Nuba Mountains to return to South Kordofan.

Speaking to Radio Dabanga, an activist reported that relief organisations stopped providing aid since October. "This made the situation for the refugees impossible," he .

" month, they started leaving Yida camp, most of them on foot, returning to their home areas. Now it seems they are all leaving. This Friday, 15 lorries loaded with families left for the Nuba Mountains."

The source  that the long journey back to the Nuba Mountains is difficult, particularly for the disabled and elderly . "The refugees are weak already, and they are lacking clean drinking water and food on the way home."

He appealed to humanitarian aid organisations to intervene and "save the lives of the Nuba refugees".

Radio Dabanga's editorial independence means that we can continue to provide factual updates about political developments to Sudanese and international actors, educate  about how to avoid outbreaks of infectious diseases, and provide a window to the  for those in all corners of Sudan. Support Radio Dabanga for as little as ?2.50, the equivalent of a cup of coffee.




16.Darfur Victims to Participate in Sudanese Peace Talks

On Thursday, the government delegation and the rebels' Darfur track team agreed to invite representatives of the millions of displaced  in Darfur to take part in the peace negotiations.

Members of the government delegation and the Sudan Revolutionary Front rebel alliance discussed the Darfur track in Juba, capital of South Sudan, on Thursday.

In a press statement after the meeting, the spokesman for the South Sudanese mediation team, Minister of Energy and Dams Dhieu Mathok, reported that Darfuri refugees and displaced   participate in the Juba negotiations.

The  parties agreed to hold a conference in El Fasher, capital of North Darfur, on January 10, in which 200 representatives  be selected to attend the peace talks in Juba. 50 of them  actively participate in the negotiations.

Another general conference  be organised in Chad, for Darfuri refugees in Chad and in the other neighbouring countries, to determine their representatives in the Juba negotiations.

Previously, the government delegations and the SRFDarfur Track agreed to involve Darfuri stakeholders from the Darfuri in the negotiations and to form a joint committee to determine the percentage of participation and its phase.

The government delegation and rebel groups on the eastern Sudan track agreed earlier to invite community leaders to the negotiations. On Wednesday, 30 native administration leaders were flown in with a presidential aircraft from eastern Sudan.

The Juba Declaration of Principles signed by the government and the armed movements on September 12, stipulates that the root causes for the armed struggle and civil wars in Sudan must be addressed.

Radio Dabanga's editorial independence means that we can continue to provide factual updates about political developments to Sudanese and international actors, educate  about how to avoid outbreaks of infectious diseases, and provide a window to the  for those in all corners of Sudan. Support Radio Dabanga for as little as ?2.50, the equivalent of a cup of coffee.



17.

As war in South Sudan drags on, U.S. frustrations mount, and relations fray


For years, South Sudan's warring leaders have delayed putting an end to their country's brutal conflict, scuttling peace talks and blowing past deadlines as the death toll mounted and a refugee crisis caused upheaval across the region.

The perpetual delays are straining the young country's close relationship with the United States, which this week announced sanctions on  top South Sudanese officials, accusing them of prolonging the country's deadly conflict and obstructing the path to peace. South Sudan responded with its own diplomatic jab, recalling its ambassador to Washington 'for consultations.'

South Sudan's envoy, Philip Jada,  return to Juba this weekend, he  in a ph interview.

'The timing of the sanctions took me by surprise,' Jada , adding that he does not expect to stay away from Washington for long. 'We have a very good engagement, and then they implement sanctions again, so we just start wondering why, if you're in dialogue, do you continue to give punitive measures?'

This week's sanctions follow other measures the United States has taken to express its discontent with the cycle of violence and political disputes. In recent weeks, it briefly recalled its ambassador to Juba, threatened visa restrictions on individuals who jeopardize the peace process and slapped sanctions on a number of highranking officials.

U.S. officials helped guide South Sudan to independence from Sudan in 2011 after decades of war, but infighting between the country's  leaders, President Salva Kiir and thenVice President Riek Machar, sparked a new civil war in 2013. The conflict divided the nation along ethnic lines and unleashed a wave of suffering that has dragged on for six years.

The  men have failed many attempts to reach and implement peace agreements. They finally signed an agreement at the end of 2018 but have missed multiple deadlines to form a unity government, announcing in November that they need until midFebruary.

It was after missing that deadline that the State Department temporarily recalled its ambassador, Thomas Hushek, from Juba and announced that the United States plans to reevaluate its relationship.

On Friday, the State Department  in an emailed statement that Hushek has met Kiir and South Sudan's foreign minister since he returned to Juba on Dec.12 and expects 'those communication channels to remain open.' But Kiir and Machar's continued inability to demonstrate a ingness to compromise 'raises questions whether either man is fit to lead the country to a political resolution of the conflict,' the statement read.

The sanctions this week came shortly after the U.S. Treasury announced another round of sanctions on five other South Sudanese officials earlier this month, calling them 'responsible for the abduction and likely murder' of  South Sudanese human rights activists who disappeared in Kenya in January 2017. On Dec. 12, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo warned that visa restrictions could be implemented against individuals who obstruct the peace process.

Jada  that his government is concerned by the sanctions against South Sudanese officials but that his recall to Juba is in direct response to this week's sanctions against Kuol Manyang Juuk, the minister of defense and veterans affairs, and Martin Elia Lomuro, the minister of cabinet affairs.

'The defense minister is very crucial in the peace agreement,' Jada . 'Imposing sanctions at this time is not helpful in implementing the peace agreement.'

Payton Knopf, an adviser to the Africa program at the United States Institute of Peace who previously served on the U.N. Panel of Experts for South Sudan,  the U.S. ambassador to Juba's temporary recall and subsequent return is just  example of an 'incoherent' U.S. policy in South Sudan.

The State Department has already raised concerns over Kiir's leadership, Knopf , 'so why is it that we continue to convey legitimacy on his government by having an ambassador there?'

The war in South Sudan has displaced millions of , many of whom are now refugees in neighboring countries. A State Departmentfunded study released  year estimated that the war had left at least 382,000  dead.

Earlier this year, in  of the many international bids to put an end to the conflict, Pope Francis hosted Kiir and Machar for a spiritual retreat, during which he bent down and kissed each man's feet, asking them to 'stay in peace.' It was an unusual move for the pontiff, who   month that he hopes to visit the predominantly Christian country next year.



18.

Citizenship Law: Providing no relief to the majority of asylum seekers

 fleeing Syria, Afghanistan and South Sudan top the list of refugees globally. Refugees from Myanmar are the fourth largest group. There are nearly 10,000 Indian refugees across the , and nearly 52,000 Indians awaiting decision on their asylum applications.Majority of the refugees in India come from three countries that are not included in the Citizenship (Amendment) Act — China, Sri Lanka and Myanmar. Meanwhile, more and more Indians are seeking asylum in other countries. Proportionate to its population, India’s refugee burden is low. Pakistan, meanwhile, has the ’s second highest number of refugees. 72919565 72919572 72919575 72919584 72919591 72919597 72919602 72919608Note: The data refers to refugees and asylum seekers only, and not immigrants, legal or illegal.

The United Nations High Commissir for Refugees (UNHCR) defines a refugee as some who has been forced to flee his or her country because of persecution, war or violence, and an asylum seeker as  who has made this claim but has yet to be granted or denied refugee status. The actual numbers are likely to be higher since India has not signed the Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees. The writer is a Chennaibased journalist.



19.

$270m required to prevent famine in S. Sudan: WFP
SudanTribube.com
At least $270 million is urgently needed to avert a looming famine in South Sudan where about 5.5 million  could face starvation next year, the United Nations . Sudanese refugees in a refugees camp in Maban, South Sudan (WFP Photo)

David Beasley,  Food Programme's (WFP) Executive Director disclosed that the agency remained $270 million short of the $697 million required to preposition food before the coming dry season.

This, he ,  enable food agency reach nearly a million  affected by floods which hit most parts of the country since July.

South Sudan risks facing famine again if the funds are not secured within the next few days. The UN agencies and the government declared famine in mid2017,” Beasley told reporters in Juba Thursday.

We are now appealing to the donors that please, we cannot turn our back on the innocent families and children out there. Failure to raise the my we need during this crisis period very well could mean loss of lives,” he added.

According to United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (UNOCHA), more than 908,000  have been affected by heavy rainfall and subsequent flooding, of whom 620,000 needed humanitarian assistance.

Late  month, the South Sudanese President Salva Kiir declared a state of emergency in the floodaffected areas of the country.

Meanwhile, the South Sudan WFP country director, Matthew Hollingworth emphasized that there are very critical food insecurity issues in South Sudan with the malnutrition rate averaging up to 16%.

Sudanese refugees in a refugees camp in Maban, South Sudan (WFP Photo)



20.
Localized clashes drive new influx of South Sudanese refugees into Ethiopia: ECHO
Localized clashes between armed forces in South Sudan's Maiwut have led to a new influx of refugees into Ethiopia's Gambella regional state, the European Civil Protection and Humanitarian Aid Operations (ECHO) disclosed on Thursday.

"Since November, over 3,600 refugees, including unaccompanied or separated minors, have arrived in Pamdong reception center, which is now hosting around 4,000 refugees," ECHO  in its latest situation report issued on Thursday.

Noting the scaling up of its humanitarian response in Pamdong reception center amid the new influx of South Sudanese refugees in collaboration with its partners, ECHO, however, stressed that "major funding gaps remain across all sectors" in the provision of humanitarian support to the refugees.

According to recent figures from the United Nations, displaced South Sudanese nationals have remained the largest refugee population in Ethiopia, totaling about 320,957 persons as of the end of November 2019.

Of all the total refugee population presently living at the Pamdong reception center in Ethiopia's Gambella regional state neighboring South Sudan, some 32 percent are  to be children under 4 years old.

The influx of South Sudanese to Ethiopia started in late 2013, shortly after the 's youngest nation descended into civil war. The conflict eventually created  of the fastestgrowing refugee crises in the .

The UN estimates that about four million South Sudanese have been displaced internally and externally.

A peace deal signed in August 2015 collapsed following renewed violence in the capital, Juba in July 2016.




21.

South Sudan's conflicting parties signed a "final" peace deal in Ethiopia. 
Rebel Alliance, Sudan Govt Work to Make Juba Peace Talks Inclusive

The Sudan Revolutionary Front (SRF) rebel alliance reports they have established a joint mechanism with the government for the involvement of the main stakeholders of the peace talks: the displaced and refugees, native administration leaders, and civil society activists.

Dr El Hadi Idris, chairman of the SRF,  that the joint mechanism between the government and the SRF was formed in the presence of members of Sudan's Supreme Peace Commission and representatives of the UNAU peacekeeping Mission in Darfur (Unamid).

He  that the meeting, attached to the current round of peace talks in Juba, affirmed the need to involve stakeholders in order for peace to be ing and be implemented on the ground.

The meeting discussed the size and proportions of stakeholder participation, the mechanism for their selection and the phase in which they  participate in the negotiations.

Idris  that this committee  visit Darfur with the help of Unamid to discuss the effective and transparent nature of the selection of the real representatives of the stakeholders, pointing out that Unamid has committed to transport the stakeholders to Juba, pointing out that the agreement to form the mechanism was considered an important breakthrough in the negotiations.

Darfur negotiations

The SRF chairman announced the actual start of negotiations on the Darfur track today, explaining that they  present their framework agreement paper to the government delegation and the mediation team, which includes the issues of the displaced and refugees, lands and hawakeer (lands traditionally used by tribal communities), humanitarian issues, and power and wealth sharing.

He mentid that negotiations  continue during the coming days, except for the Christmas and New Year holidays, explaining that delegations  remain in Juba throughout the negotiation period until a final agreement is reached or a real breakthrough occurs in the essential files.

Spokesman for the South Sudan mediation team, Minister of Energy and Dams Dhieu Mathok reported that the Darfur track committee  present its position to the government delegation and the mediation team, describing this as "an important event that constitutes the real beginning for the Darfur track".

He  in a press conference on Wednesday that the Higher Committee for the Darfur Track met yesterday with a view to agreeing on the participation of refugees, displaced  and civil society leaders, considering this an important issue in order to cause breakthroughs in the negotiation processes in the Darfur track, saying that the participation of those affected by the war in the negotiations paves the way to true stability in Sudan.

'Axis to reach peace in Darfur'

He pointed out that agreement on this issue is a basic axis to reach peace in Darfur.

On the separatelyheld peace negotiations with the Sudan 's Liberation MovementNorth faction led by Abdelaziz El Hilu, Mathok  that the document submitted by the rebel group to a committee from the government party, and that the mediators are awaiting the response of the government party after the committee has finished its work.

Aisha Mousa, member of the Sovereign Council, affirmed that the meeting concluded that the displaced and refugees should be represented as the right holders of rights and revealed the formation of a mini committee from all parties participating in the meeting to go to the camps and choose the personalities that  participate in the negotiations.

Yesterday, a delegation of 30 native administration leaders from eastern Sudan, most notably Sheikh Suliman Betay and Mousa Mohamed Ahmed. arrived in Juba with a presidential aircraft.

Radio Dabanga's editorial independence means that we can continue to provide factual updates about political developments to Sudanese and international actors, educate  about how to avoid outbreaks of infectious diseases, and provide a window to the  for those in all corners of Sudan. Support Radio Dabanga for as little as ?2.50, the equivalent of a cup of coffee.



22. Refugee crisis

War, violence, persecution and rights abuses have, over the years, forced  to flee their homeland around the . There are other factors  like environment and climate change  that have displaced  from their homes. The global refugee population today thus stands in excess of 70 million, according to the UN. Of this staggering displaced population, more than a third  some 25 million   have been forced to bid adieu to their own countries altogether. And of those displaced from their own countries, more than 11 million belong to Afghanistan, Syria and South Sudan  with Syrians being the largest forcibly displaced population in the .

Pakistan borders a country that has  of the biggest refugee populations in the  i.e. Afghanistan. The  of Pakistan have played host to around four million Afghan refugees for about four decades. They have embraced the Afghans, fleeing a longdrawn war in their country, with open arms and exemplary generosity, and continue to do so despite huge economic hardships and a host of social and communal problems. There are still three million Afghan refugees in the country, including 1.4 million registered s.

However, this generosity of us Pakistanis has only been acknowledged in words, and no countries of the  have stepped ahead to shoulder this huge burden that we have been carrying for decades over decades. At the first Global Refugee Forum held in Geneva, Prime Minister Imran Khan, as coconvener, spoke on the crisis and made it clear that Pakistan is in no position to accommodate any more refugees and that the ' must now step in'. He has forewarned the  of the 'biggest impending refugee crisis' in South Asia due to the fascist polices of the Indian PM whereby Kashmiris have been kept under a lockdown since August 5, the Muslim population in Assam has been deprived of Indian nationality, and the citizenship act introduced.


