

1.
Abiy Ahmed, Vladimir Lenin and the Quest for Peace

Abiy Ahmed was in a hurry. This year's Nobel Peace Prize laureate surprised his Norwegian hosts when he declined to hold press conferences and skipped town shortly after delivering his Dec. 10 Nobel lecture. Rising ethnic tensions beckoned the Ethiopian prime minister home.

Mr. Abiy won the Nobel for his "decisive initiative to resolve the border conflict with neighboring Eritrea," but his most important work lies ahead of him. Ethnic conflict is the principal threat to the stability of Ethiopia  Africa's secondmostpopulous country,    of the world's fastestgrowing economies, and a critical U.S. counterterrorism partner. And the country's constitution exacerbates the problem. To stave off disaster, Mr. Abiy must reverse decades of ethnic exclusion, reinforce panEthiopian identity, and reform a flawed federal system. He must  banish the ghost of Vladimir Lenin.

The Ethiopian census lists more than 85 ethnic groups, and the 1995 constitution has reinforced differences among them by dividing the country into nine ethnically defined regional states. Now that Mr. Abiy has called for elections and lifted restrictions on freedom of expression, ethnonationalists among the regionally dominant groups are feeling emboldened. Some are violent. Minorities in the nine ethnic states have good reason to fear the tyranny of the majority: Nearly three million Ethiopians fled their homes in 2018. That's more than were internally displaced due to conflict in Syria, Somalia and Nigeria combined year.

Ethnic federalism is "a very problematic model for any multiethnic society," says Lovise Aalen, a political scientist at Norway's Christian Michelsen Institute. The federal structure empowers regionally dominant groups like the Oromo (34% of Ethiopia's population) and the Amhara (27%), giving them little reason to compromise with ethnic minorities or migrants who've left their home region. "Unlike any other constitution," Addis Ababa University political scientist Asnake Kefale tells me, Ethiopia's "allows selfdetermination up to secession." While the provision is unique, it isn't unprecedented  it  appeared in the 1946 constitution of Yugoslavia.

Ethiopian ethnic federalism presents a historical puzzle: Why would an ethnically diverse country adopt such a constitution, especially a few years after the Soviet Union and Yugoslavia fell apart?

Ms. Aalen says ethnic federalism was "a very useful tool for the TPLF," the ethnic Tigrayan rebel group that seized power in 1991. "They as 6% of the population couldn't dominate efficiently through a unitary system." Federalism allowed the TPLF to pit ethnic groups against    another and monopolize power at the center. But federalism wasn't just a "sophisticated divideandrule thing. . . . It was  an ideological thing," Ms. Aalen continues. "They were a MarxistLeninist group who were highly influenced by the Leninist thinking about ethnicity." Lenin thought identities were firmly fixed, not "easily mobilized, easily dormant," as Ms. Aalen puts it. He  held that a centralized party could, through repression, "guide ethnic mobilization" indefinitely. Both assumptions proved faulty.

The historical puzzle gives way, then, to historical irony. In Ethiopia, MarxistLeninist rebels triumphed as the Cold War ended. They brought with them an idea that had been tried in the Soviet Union and Yugoslavia. All this in a country with the raw material to forge a strong national identity  including a proud history of defying colonialism.

Mr. Kefale sees some good in Ethiopian federalism. "There were some advances," he says. "The different groups were allowed to use their languages for selfadministration and for education."

In October, Mr. Abiy published a book called "Medemer." The title, "synergy" in Amharic, evokes panEthiopian identity. But as the political system opens up, longdisempowered groups aren't feeling medemer. On Nov. 20, voters in the Sidama zone of Ethiopia's southern region  home to more than 45 ethnicities  overwhelmingly voted to create a 10th state. The Sidama example may lead other ethnic groups to seek statehood for themselves. "I think there are going to be more regions in the south," Mr. Kefale says.

If Mr. Abiy hopes to be celebrated in Ethiopia for generations and not merely in Norway for a night, he needs to do things. First, immediately provide security for vulnerable minorities. Second, propose a constitutional convention. ideas to strengthen national identity: Reconfigure the electoral system to encourage coalitions across ethnic lines, and break up the existing ethnic regions into smaller provinces.

Before considering constitutional reforms, however, Mr. Abiy have to triumph in elections scheduled for May. Medemer rhetoric wins him support across ethnic lines, but it has  outraged some of his fellow Oromos, such as Jawar Mohammed, whose Oromia Media Network has more than a million Facebook followers. Mr. Abiy's defense minister,  an Oromo, has spoken out against the prime minister's latest gamble: dissolving the old ruling party and replacing it with the new Prosperity Party. "There are elections, there is the formation of the party," Mr. Kefale says. "The system is very much overwhelmed." Mr. Abiy has the Peace Prize, but his work for peace has only begun.




2. Middle East News
World
Trump Calls for Restraint in Northwestern Syria; President criticizes Russia, Syria and Iran for intensifying attacks on rebel stronghold


"Russia, Syria, and Iran are killing, or on their way to killing, thousands of innocent civilians in Idlib Province. Don't do it!" Mr. Trump tweeted while in Florida for his winter vacation. "Turkey is working hard to stop this carnage."

Idlib province in northwestern Syria has suffered regular strikes since the end of April as President Bashar alAssad, backed by Russia and Iran, attempts to reassert control over the entire country after nearly nine years of war. Turkey supports some of the rebel groups in Idlib. Ankara, Moscow and Tehran  engage with each other in trilateral talks to find a solution to the conflict while preserving their often opposing interests.

Those strikes have escalated since week, according to monitoring groups, fighters and Western agencies, focusing on the town of Maarat alNuman. As many as 100,000    have fled the town and surrounding areas since Dec. 16, according to the United Nations, which has warned that an offensive on Idlib would cause a humanitarian disaster.

On Tuesday, despite a United Nations request for a humanitarian pause in the fighting that the U.N.  had been accepted, Russian warplanes bombed a camp for displaced    near the town of Jobas, according to Syrian nongovernmental organizations. The strikes killed at least 10    including six children, according to the White Helmets aid group, and warmonitoring groups the Syrian Network for Human Rights and the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights.

An hour later, the Syrian government, which is backed by Moscow, bombed the main road near the town of Babeela, the White Helmets    .

Russia's Foreign Ministry  Thursday Moscow favored taking more active steps to fully implement the memorandum Moscow signed with Turkey in Sochi in September on Idlib, including separating the moderate opposition from those Moscow deems to be terrorists. The ministry's spokeswoman, Maria Zakharova, suggested that Russia's patience is running thin.

"For our part, we are taking measures to keep the situation under control," Ms. Zakharova, told reporters Thursday. "It is obvious, however, that the terrorist enclave in Idlib cannot be tolerated endlessly."

Ms. Zakharova  slammed what she called the "illegal presence of the United States and its allies in this part of Syria, as well as Israeli airstrikes."

The U.N. Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs on Tuesday morning sent an email to Syrian NGOs informing them that its requested pause in the fighting had been approved to allow for safe passage out of Maarat alNuman, a town that has been heavily attacked the past week, according to local organizations.

Sharing the coordinates of roads leading out of town, a U.N. official wrote: "Please can you share this as widely as possible to allow as many    as possible who still need to move to take advantage of the window."

Another U.N. official  the organization had requested a pause in airstrikes that nonetheless occurred in the mentioned areas, but wouldn't comment on who carried them out.

The Russian Ministry of Defense didn't reply to a request for comment on Tuesday's strikes.

The Syrian government couldn't be reached for comment. Syrian state news and a war monitor  Thursday progovernment troops advanced and captured several villages in Idlib. Syrian state news, citing the military,  the government has so far captured more than 40 villages in its latest offensive.

Iranian officials on Thursday dismissed Mr. Trump's criticism.

Syria has a "legitimate right to fight terrorism and terrorist groups operating in Syria,"  Alireza Miryousefi, spokesman for Iran's mission to the U.N. He  the U.S. "stays illegally in Syria and is not in a position to preach others how to legally help the Syrian government to fight terrorists."

Following a phone call with Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan on Oct. 6, Mr. Trump directed a complete withdrawal of U.S. troops from Syria with the exception of a small complement of American troops at the al Tanf garrison in southeast Syria near the Jordanian and Iraqi borders.

The expected battle for Idlib likely be the final major government offensive in a multisided war, in which foreign powers have fought for competing interests on Syrian turf. The province is meant to be protected by a ceasefire agreement year between Russia and Turkey, which back opposite sides of the conflict. Idlib province is home to about three million   , half of whom have been displaced from elsewhere in Syria.

An allout offensive would send more Syrian refugees to Turkey, which already hosts nearly four million Syrian refugees and has closed its borders. Mr. Erdogan  Sunday that 80,000 refugees were on the move from Idlib toward Turkey.

According to the U.N., the newly displaced come in addition to more than 400,000    who have fled their homes since the end of April.

Nazih Osseiran and Ann M. Simmons contributed to this article.

Write to Sune Engel Rasmussen at sune.rasmussen@wsj.com[mailto:sune.rasmussen@wsj.com] and Rebecca Ballhaus at Rebecca.Ballhaus@wsj.com[mailto:Rebecca.Ballhaus@wsj.com]



3. Attacks Mount on Syrian Rebel Province  WSJ

Russia and Assad regime step up strikes, escalating a humanitarian crisis

By Sune Engel Rasmussen and Nazih Osseiran 
This article is being republished as part of our daily reproduction of WSJ.com articles that  appeared in the U.S. print edition of The Wall Street Journal (December 24, 2019).

BEIRUT  Russia and the Syrian government have intensified attacks on the rebel stronghold in northwestern Syria, forcing tens of thousands to flee toward the Turkish border amid fears of an allout offensive to recapture the territory.

Idlib province has suffered regular strikes since the end of April as President Bashar alAssad, backed by Russia and Iran, reasserts control over the entire country after nearly nine years of war.

Those strikes have escalated since week, according to monitoring groups, fighters and Western agencies, focusing on the town of Maarat alNuman. As many as 100,000    have fled the town and surrounding areas since Dec. 16, according to the United Nations, which has warned that an offensive on Idlib would cause a humanitarian disaster.

The expected battle for Idlib likely be the final major government offensive in a multisided war, in which foreign powers have fought for competing interests on Syrian turf. The province is meant to be protected by a ceasefire agreement year between Russia and Turkey, which back opposite sides of the conflict.

An allout offensive would send more Syrian refugees to Turkey, which already hosts nearly four million Syrian refugees and has closed its borders. Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan  Sunday that 80,000 refugees were on the move from Idlib toward Turkey.

Idlib province is home to about three million   , half of whom have been displaced from elsewhere in Syria.

"To me, this is an attack on a refugee camp," Jan Egeland, secretarygeneral of the Norwegian Refugee Council, . "It's true that there's a lot of bad guys there, and guns, that's a fact. But there are many more babies than bad guys."

The rampedup Russian attacks come ahead of a visit this week to Moscow by a Turkish delegation led by Deputy Foreign Minister Sedat Onal. The sides would discuss Idlib as well as the conflict in Libya, where Ankara and Moscow  support opposing sides, Mr. Erdogan  week.

Mr. Erdogan earlier this month  Ankara was ready to send soldiers to Libya to prop up the internationally recognized government fighting Khalifa Haftar, an insurgent commander backed by Moscow.

Mr. Erdogan wants to discuss proposals to avoid a clash in Libya when he hosts his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin on Jan. 8, according to    familiar with the matter.

By striking Idlib now, Moscow is trying to pressure Turkey for concessions, as it has done before previous summits, according to Col. Fatih Hassoun, commander of the National Liberation Movement, a Turkishbacked opposition group in Idlib.

"Idlib has become the place where messages are being exchanged between countries," Mr. Hassoun . "The Syrian    are paying the price."

Russia and Turkey in October established a military partnership in northeast Syria to uphold a buffer zone along the border after a Turkish incursion to take the area from Kurdishled militia.

With much of the global focus on Turkey's military campaign in northeastern Syria, Mr. Assad's forces backed by Russian firepower have intensified strikes on Idlib.

Stretched thin after eight years of war, and relying on Russia for airpower, Damascus has for months shaved off edges of the periphery of the province, which it has vowed to retake completely.

Mr. Assad and Russian forces have taken sections around the strategic M5 highway, which cuts through Maarat alNuman, the focus of the most recent attacks. Still, Russia hasn't supported a fullblown offensive on Idlib.

"This approach of salamislicing Idlib may be a concession by Russia to Turkey and an expression of Russian concern for Turkish interests, even as Russia is apparently unwilling to preserve the original agreed boundaries of this Idlib zone,"  Sam Heller, senior analyst with the International Crisis Group. A total offensive, he , "could be more sweeping and chaotic."

Many residents of Maarat alNuman are displaced from Khan Sheikhoun, a town that suffered a deadly chemical attack by the Syrian government in 2017, and Hama, the scene of several largescale offensives.

The humanitarian situation is further threatened by Russian and Chinese vetoes week of a U.N. Security Council resolution to allow crossborder aid deliveries into Syria from Turkey and Iraq.

The current permission expires Jan. 10, after which the U.N. no longer be able to deliver aid across the borders, unless another resolution is passed.

4. Global View
Pompeo Champions the Faithful


Christmas is anything but a season of peace and joy for millions of Christians around the  today. Not since the death of Stalin have Christians in so many places faced the levels of discrimination, violence, imprisonment and even death on account of their religion that they do today.

After more than a century of intermittent genocide, persecution and forced removals, ancient Christian populations in much of the Middle East are on the edge of extinction. Iraq's Christian population, estimated at 1.4 million as recently as 2003, fell by almost 90% in the chaos that followed the American invasion. Roughly three quarters of Syria's Christian population, estimated at million before the current civil war, are refugees. Once a substantial percentage of the Arab Palestinian population, Christians are rapidly disappearing from the Palestinian territories. Egypt still retains a large Christian population, but Copts face pervasive discrimination and, especially in rural areas, violence.

Persecution hangs over beleaguered Christian communities in much of the world. Christians in subSaharan Africa face violence from Boko Haram fighters. In Pakistan no Christian is safe from false charges of blasphemy. Hindu mobs in India have attacked churches. In Indonesia, radical Islamists attempt to disrupt the traditionally peaceful relationships among the country's religious groups.

The most alarming developments are taking place in China. As authorities in Beijing work to enforce ideological conformity and restrict debate among China's 1.4 billion   , the Christian population is experiencing heightened scrutiny and pressure. Crosses have been pulled down from church roofs, and churches have been bulldozed. More ominously, the biometric monitoring and close surveillance that has been used to crush Tibetan Buddhists and the Muslims of Xinjiang has been systematically introduced into Christian churches across the country.

China's Communist rulers are well aware that Christians have led democracy movements in many countries. It is not only Pope John Paul II's role in ending Communist rule in Poland; South Korea's democracy movement was led by Christians. The rapid growth of Christianity in China  from about three million believers in 1949 to somewhere between 60 million and 100 million today  alarms Beijing. Some of the most visible leaders of the Hong Kong protests are prominently identified as Christian.

Christians have no monopoly on being persecuted. Muslims in much of Asia face unprecedented repression. Jews throughout the  stand appalled before a rising tide of antiSemitic hate. The followers of these three religions, widely dispersed across the world, are achingly vulnerable to the fear of diversity, hatred of dissent, and lack of legal protections found in so many countries today.

Secretary of State Mike Pompeo wants to make religious freedom the centerpiece of American humanrights policy. This is not just about shoring up President Trump's support among religious voters. Mr. Pompeo tells me that religious liberty is a key condition of prosperity and security, and putting it at the center of American humanrights advocacy highlight what he calls "the central premise of American foreign policy and the Trump administration," that "the essential dignity of every human being matters."

That is not always the impression Mr. Trump gives in his tweets, but Mr. Pompeo has a real point. The ability of every person to follow his conscience is the basic right from which all others flow. No state, political party or social movement has the right to tell human beings what they can or cannot believe.

Translating this into activism is anything but straightforward. Today as in the past, intolerance and fanaticism within religious communities is a leading cause of persecution. And for many advocates of causes like gay rights and abortion, religion is an opponent to defeat rather than a partner to protect.

Yet the extraordinary violence being deployed against Christians, Muslims and members of religious minorities like the Yazidis and the Baha'i  at levels not seen since the era of Communist persecution  should serve as a wakeup call.

Religious freedom is not only the most basic human right; the defense of religious freedom is  good politics for American humanrights advocates. Americans' appetite for humanrights diplomacy and interventions is limited after their failures in recent decades. To regain public trust, American human rightsadvocates must reconnect with concerns and priorities that reach the broad public. The cause of religious freedom offers the humanrights community its best opportunity to build its base of support while confronting a monstrous evil.

Meanwhile, as Americans of all faiths and no faith celebrate the holidays with family and friends, we could do worse than to remember the millions around the  who suffer discrimination and persecution simply for following their consciences.



5. Journal Reports: Decade in Review

The Changing Face of Immigration; Most of those crossing into the U.S. illegally used to be Mexican men seeking work. Now it is families and unaccompanied minors from Central America seeking asylum.

Millions of    fleeing wars, violence, corruption and poverty in their home countries went on the move this decade, driving politics and antiimmigration sentiment on both sides of the Atlantic.

In the U.S., illegal immigration surged in the latter part of the decade, and there was a big change in who was trying to enter the country from the Southern border.

As the Mexican economy improved and deportations soared during President Obama's first term, the number of illegal immigrants from Mexico declined significantly, and in their place came families and children traveling alone, most from the Central American nations of El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras.

By 2014, Mexican nationals for the first time in modern history made up a minority of border arrests. Nearly 140,000    traveling as families and children traveling alone made up the new majority. Most asked for asylum, saying they were fleeing violence and corruption in their home countries.

The Obama administration was initially unprepared for the flood, setting up the first of what would turn out to be multiple humanitarian crises at the border. It opened family jails in an effort to deter the asylum seekers, but the detention facilities were scaled back in the summer of 2015 after a federal judge in California ruled that the government could only detain parents with their children for up to 20 days.

Until recently, the families and children seeking asylum were allowed to remain in the U.S. until their claims were decided. Hundreds of thousands are still waiting for that process to play out amid a backlog of more than    million cases pending in immigration court.

In the federal fiscal year ended in September, 65% of those arrested crossing the Mexican border—about 550,000   —were either traveling as families or were unaccompanied minors. That figure, on the rise since 2017, set off its own crisis as the Trump administration tried to deter migrants through tougher detention policies.

U.S. Border Patrol agents (top) take into custody a father and son from Honduras in Texas, June 2018. Silvia (above) holds her daughter Eyni for the first time in 29 days, July 2018. Silvia came to the U.S. to escape life in Guatemala and live with family in Georgia. PHOTO: Melissa Golden for The Wall Street Journal

Decade in Review

Explore the Timeline[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/whatwasnewsthedecadesbiggeststories11576630800]

 Read the full report[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/news/collection/decadeinreviewf6144083]

 The Puzzle of the Economy[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/economistsgotthedecadeallwrongtheyretryingtofigureoutwhy11576346400]

 Joanna Stern on the Smartphone[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/firstthesmartphonechangedthenoveradecadeitchangedus11576618873]

 A Nation Divided[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/howtheusbecameanationdivided11576630802]

 Frugality Got Its Groove Back[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/howfrugalitygotitsgrooveback11576630808]

 Jason Gay on the Cubs and Other Bright Spots[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/thedecadewasntallhorriblethecubswon11576332001]

 Order copies of The Decade in Review print section[https://wsjshop.com/]

While the White House reversed course on some of its tactics—including separating migrant children from their parents—it claimed they were effective overall. Its most effective policy appears to have been the    known as "Remain in Mexico," in which tens of thousands of asylum seekers this year have been forced to wait in Mexico instead of the U.S. until their cases are resolved. The policy, which critics say violates the migrants' dueprocess rights and puts them at risk in unsafe Mexican cities, has helped to significantly lower the number of families arrested crossing the border in recent months.

In Europe, meanwhile, a steep surge in the number of asylum seekers reaching Europe in 2015 was    of the most momentous political developments on the continent since the eurozone debt crisis broke out five years earlier.

The influx of nearly million   , mostly from the Middle East, Africa and Afghanistan, bolstered antiimmigration parties from Greece to Sweden, Germany, Spain and Denmark. It  opened a deep rift between Eastern and WesternEuropean countries over how to spread the burden of caring for the newcomers.

Thousands of    drowned in the Mediterranean Sea trying to migrate to Europe from Syria, Iraq, Afghanistan. Photos of rickety rafts overloaded with migrants and the body of a Syrian boy on a beach drew global attention to the issue in 2015.

By the end of 2016, the U.N. estimated that about 5.2 million refugees had fled to Europe.

In the U.K., concern over migration was    of the key issues in the campaign leading to the 2016 referendum on leaving the European Union.

In Germany, a country where politics is still shaped by memories of the Nazi era, the refugee crisis pushed support for the antiimmigration, nationalist AfD into double digits, allowing it to enter parliament for the first time in 2017.

In 2019, the U.N. estimated that there are more than 20 million refugees worldwide and more than 41 million "internally displaced persons" who have fled their homes amid war or other political conflicts.




6. London Attack Puts Focus On Tracking Terror Convicts  WSJ

The killing of    by a convicted terrorist on early release from prison has highlighted a growing challenge for security services in the U.K. and across Europe: the return into the community of    who have served time in jail for terrorism offenses.

The attack in the London Bridge area on Friday  by a knifewielding man who was convicted in 2012 for being part of a group that was plotting to bomb the London Stock Exchange  has thrust the sentencing of terrorists to center stage in the campaigning in the Dec. 12 general election.

It is the second consecutive generalelection campaign that has been interrupted by a terrorist incident: In 2017, a nearby attack that left 11    dead raised questions about cutbacks in funding for the police.

The question of how to monitor convicted terrorists returning into society is a growing issue for stretched counterterrorism police and security agencies in the U.K. and across Europe  a parallel with the challenge they face from jihadists returning from the Syrian conflict.

Usman Khan, the attacker, was released early from prison in December 2018 under a set of conditions that included an internet ban, a curfew and limitations on his movements and meetings. He carried a GPS tag allowing the authorities to track his whereabouts. He had been given a custodial sentence of 16 years, of which he served eight years from his arrest in December 2010.

Police shot and killed him on London Bridge after being confronted by members of the public. He had been wearing a fake suicide vest.

The Islamic State terrorist group  Khan was    of its fighters. However, the group has claimed responsibility for other attacks, without evidence later emerging of its involvement. Khan's group drew its inspiration in 2010 from an al Qaeda affiliate, prosecutors .

Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Sunday  there were around 74 other convicted terrorists who had been released early from prison, and that police were ensuring they are properly supervised.

Mr. Johnson   he would introduce longer prison sentences for terrorist offenses, add to prison capacity and roll back some restrictions on the surveillance of suspected terrorists if his Conservative Party is returned to power.

"If you are convicted of a serious terrorist offense, there should be a mandatory minimum sentence of 14 years  and some should never be released," he wrote in the Mail on Sunday newspaper. Terrorists and extremists should serve every day of their sentences "with no exceptions, " he .

The main opposition Labour Party, meanwhile, focused on budget cuts to the police and the probationary services. In an interview with Sky News, Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn  he didn't think terrorists should always serve out their full sentences. "Not necessarily, no," he . "I think it depends on the circumstances."

Friday's attacks took place inside Fishmongers' Hall, a building on the northwestern end of London Bridge used for conferences. Khan, who told authorities that he had abandoned his jihadist views, was attending an event hosted by Learning Together, a University of Cambridge program that aims to rehabilitate prisoners through education.

The University of Cambridge on Sunday  both of those killed on Friday were associated with the institution, as was    of the three injured.

"I am sad beyond words to report that a course coordinator, Jack Merritt, was killed,"  Stephen J. Toope, the university's vice chancellor.

A statement released through the police by 25yearold Mr. Merritt's parents , "We know Jack would not want this terrible, isolated incident to be used as a pretext by the government for introducing even more draconian sentences on prisoners, or for detaining    in prison for longer than necessary."

On Sunday, the police named the other victim as 23yearold Saskia Jones, a Cambridge graduate from StratforduponAvon who was a volunteer with Learning Together.

British officials say the numbers of returning jihadists from Syria has so far been lower than expected  but they are dealing with a steady stream of    convicted of terrorism offenses leaving jail who need monitoring by security services.

A 2019 report from Globsec, a nonpartisan think tank based in Slovakia, described the release of individuals from confinement across Europe as an issue that "constitutes and constitute a challenge for security authorities in the future." It cites, however, some academic studies that suggest    with terrorist convictions are less likely to reoffend than other criminals.

It  that of a sample of 199 individuals arrested in 2015  what it describes as the peak year for European jihadists  57% would be released from prison by the end of 2023. As many as 45 had already been released from prison because they received short sentences, it .

Compared with the U.S., sentences in Europe are short. The European police agency Europol  in its terrorism threat report published this year that over the previous three years "the average prison sentence for jihadist terrorist offenses remained five years."

In France, the maximum sentence for association with terrorism is 10 years. In Belgium, depending on the degree of involvement in a terrorist group, sentences start at five to 10 years, ranging up to 20 years for terrorgroup leaders.

In Germany, courts lean toward a lenient interpretation of the law that already provides a very high level of protection of the rights of the accused. Terror suspects rarely get lengthy prison sentences, and those who are jailed are able to take advantage of the parole system if they behave well in prison.

A Hamburg court in November sentenced Iraqis linked to Islamic State to four years and eight months in prison for preparing a terrorist attack. The cousins, who arrived in Germany as refugees in 2016, established contact with Islamic State handlers over the internet and built explosive devices with the intention of killing as many    as possible, according to the court ruling. They  took driving lessons to be able to execute a vehicle attack.

In another recent case, a Syrian man who  lives in Germany as a refugee was sentenced to three years and nine months in prison for having fought with Islamic State in Syria and Iraq. According to court files, the man volunteered to join the terror group in 2014.

Germany's Federal Criminal Police Office has identified 679 Islamist extremists who are believed to be able to commit terrorist attacks. They are monitored by authorities, but prosecutors are unable to charge them because of a lack of evidence.




7. Houses of Worship
Lebanon's Discontent Has Religious Roots

For more than weeks Lebanese citizens from every walk of life have taken to the streets demanding social and political reform. While the protests have been unifying and peaceful, at the heart of Lebanon's problems is a deepseated identity crisis.

After  War I the French established Lebanon as a homeland for Christians who had been hiding in its mountains since the advent of Islam. Long famous for its cedar trees  and the Phoenicians who used them to build ships for the world's first maritime trading empire  Lebanon always has been a nexus between the Semitic heartland and GrecoRoman  beyond. The distinctive expression of Lebanese Christianity, the Syriac Maronite Church, was an Aramaicspeaking Eastern rite affiliated with the Western See of Rome.

Lebanon's geographic isolation still didn't hold back the outside world. After    particularly bad antiChristian pogrom in 1860  and subsequent intervention by Britain and France  the Ottoman Empire gave Lebanon's historic autonomy the force of law. Sixty years later, the French took possession and moved the country toward independence over the objections of local Muslims who wanted to remain part of Greater Syria. Maronite leaders asked the League of Nations to extend the borders of the fledgling state to make it more economically viable. This move more than doubled Lebanon's Muslim population, making the region's only Christian state barely halfChristian before its official founding.

The Maronites retained control over Lebanon's preindependence politics until Christian emigration and Muslim population growth forced them to make concessions in the National Pact of 1943. While successful in consolidating control of the presidency, army and Parliament, the Maronites disavowed their allegiance to the West and conceded Lebanon's Arab identity. Never mind that most did not see themselves as truly Arab.

Hence the fundamental source of Lebanon's instability: Though built as a Christian state, Lebanon has become less Christian over time. The discrepancy between law and fact grows more glaring. Already on the eve of independence in 1943, Lebanon was little more than a ChristianMuslim powersharing experiment. Since then, the growing Muslim majority has sought to cast off the control of a shrinking, frustrated and increasingly paranoid Christian minority.

Caught up in the Arabist tide of the mid20th century, Lebanon slid toward crisis in 1958 and again in 1975 when local Muslim forces teamed up with Yasser Arafat's Palestinian guerrillas to challenge state authority. The violent countercampaign of Lebanon's Christians, which launched a bloody 15year civil war, was the panicked response of a    determined to save a homeland they had never really possessed.

After some initial success, Lebanon's Christian factions turned on each other and lost the war. Exhausted and forced to compromise, the sides struck a deal in 1989. The Ta'if Agreement reduced Christian representation in Parliament, limited the power of the Maronite president, and enhanced the power of the Sunni prime minister. It  forced the disarmament of Lebanon's militias  with the exception of Hezbollah, which was allowed to keep its weapons to fight Israeli forces commanding a small strip of land on the Lebanese side of the border.

Thirty years later Hezbollah is stronger, Muslims are more numerous (especially after an influx of Syrian refugees), and Christians are divided among various Sunni and Shiite parties to which they have pledged allegiance to survive. Meanwhile, an Islamic civil war playing out across the region has made the Near East even more dangerous for Christians than it was a century ago. The tiny country that was built to shelter them has itself become a vehicle for repressing them.

Lebanon's Christians need security more than ever. Given the region's history of religious violence, their fears are likely to grow in proportion to their exclusion from Lebanese politics. Where those fears lead  and how they can be addressed  is the question  leaders should ask. Whether it's decentralization, partition or emigration, the country needs a solution quickly.

Lebanon can't be a Christian state: That ship sailed in the 1940s. If Lebanon serves no purpose distinct from its neighbors, why should it exist? The failure to answer this question lies at the heart of the country's instability, harming Christians and Muslims alike. Without a cogent sense of national identity and a vision for its future, Lebanon's economic and political decline  and its manipulation by foreign powers  get worse.




8. With Invasion, Turkish Leader Regains Political Sway  WSJ


Turkey's longtime leader, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, had suffered political blows in recent months from a recession and unease over millions of Syrian refugees, reflected in key election losses and rare defiance from ruling party bigwigs over his authoritarian and nepotistic ways.

Now, after three weeks of military action, Mr. Erdogan's political horizon has suddenly brightened.

Roundtheclock television is beaming footage of Turkish soldiers deploying in northeastern Syria, celebrating the audacity of Turkey's "commander in chief" to strike a SyrianKurdish militia despite U.S. calls to abort it. "The Offensive of the Century," read a frontpage banner headline.

Condemned globally, the incursion drew near unanimous support across Turkey's deep political divide as a solution both to combat a widely perceived threat by the militia and to create an enclave to resettle millions of Syrian refugees in Turkey.

The SyrianKurdish militia that Turkey is fighting was vital in the U.S. campaign against Islamic State  and to track down and kill the terror group's leader, Abu Bakr alBaghdadi, this week. But Turkish officials see the militia, known as the YPG, as an existential threat because of its ties to the Turkish PKK insurgency.

"The moment the Turkish army goes to the front line, our only party is the Turkish flag," Meral Aksener, leader of the opposition Good Party,  when the offensive began on Oct. 9.

President Trump's threats to wreck the Turkish economy if Mr. Erdogan behaved like "a tough guy" and attacked the Kurds have only bolstered Mr. Erdogan's narrative that he is the sole bulwark against Kurdish terrorism. Negotiations with U.S. Vice President Mike Pence and Russian President Vladimir Putin over truces then buttressed Mr. Erdogan's image as a statesman of global stature.

The Syrian military campaign marks a spectacular political turnaround for Mr. Erdogan, months after his ruling Justice and Development Party, or AKP, lost mayoral seats in Istanbul, Ankara, and other large Turkish cities. The campaign  countered widespread voter resentment over Mr. Erdogan's openarms refugee policy that led to the arrival of four million Syrians in Turkey, displaced by that neighboring country's civil war.

Mr. Erdogan's political renaissance could be fleeting.

The Syria invasion won't help repair a rickety Turkish economy beset by doubledigit unemployment and a chronic dependency on foreign funding. Mr. Trump lifted U.S. sanctions he adopted in response to Turkey's incursion but U.S. lawmakers planned a vote Tuesday on a bipartisan bill to punish Ankara.

Renewed clashes this week between Kurdish and Turkish forces are raising the risk of extended hostilities. Tensions between Mr. Erdogan and Syria's leader, Bashar alAssad, remain. And Turkey's plan to resettle Syrian refugees to a "safe zone" in Syria along the country's shared border lacks funding and faces criticism as being ill conceived.

But the recent events have allowed Mr. Erdogan, long a champion of political Islam, to cement a shift he initiated in 2015 toward Turkey's nationalist camp, when he halted peace talks with the PKK. In the following years he  formed an alliance with an ultranationalist party and revived the cult of Mustafa Kemal Atatürk, the father of modern Turkey. Mr. Erdogan has  gained breathing room to tackle the refugee issue,  Sezgin Tanrikulu, a lawmaker with the opposition Republican   's Party, or CHP.

"After the municipal defeats, Mr. Erdogan had lost his capacity to drive the agenda," Mr. Tanrikulu . "He has regained the upper hand."

Following the 2011 Arab Spring uprising in Syria, Turkey openly aimed to topple Mr. Assad, becoming a rear base for rebel groups and welcoming hundreds of thousands of families escaping the conflict. At the time, the country's economy was thriving, and Mr. Erdogan  Turks had a duty to assist their Muslim brothers.

"No matter how many come, we are obliged to accept them," Mr. Erdogan  in 2012.

The number of refugees kept rising after 2016, when Mr. Erdogan struck a deal with the European Union to keep asylum seekers in Turkey in exchange for financial help.

But as Turkey's economy swung into recession year, antiimmigrant sentiment soared and Turkish voters, including supporters of Mr. Erdogan's AKP, registered their anger in the March municipal elections and a June 23 repeat vote in Istanbul.

Mr. Erdogan's approval rating was 44% in August, according to a survey conducted by Turkish polling agency Metropoll, down from 53.1% in July 2018, when Mr. Erdogan inaugurated his new, fiveyear presidential mandate.

The results highlighted how Mr. Erdogan, who had long benefited from a fragmented opposition, now faced a powerful coalition spanning secularists to Islamists and nationalists.

Following the electoral rout in Istanbul, an Erdogan aide , "If he doesn't quickly redress the course of action, he's doomed."

Official data this summer showed that the AKP had hemorrhaged 850,000 members, nearly 10% of its roughly 10 millionstrong base. heavyweight members, Ahmet Davutoglu, a former prime minister, and Ali Babacan, a former finance minister, left the AKP with plans to create rival parties.

"Unfortunately, AKP's boards and consultation mechanisms, which helped foster shared wisdom, have been transformed into bureaus tasked with rubber stamping the decisions of    man," Mr. Davutoglu  before defecting.

Mr. Erdogan called them traitors, but changed tack on the refugee issue. In July, authorities began conducting more identity checks in a bid to resettle many Syrians in Istanbul, a megalopolis of 16 million. And in August, Mr. Erdogan  Turkey aimed "to accelerate the return of Syrian refugees to their homes."

What Mr. Erdogan had once called a "security zone" in northern Syria free of Kurdish fighters became a "safe zone" to relocate Syrian refugees.

At the United Nations General Assembly in September, Mr. Erdogan presented a map of his proposed 20 miles by 300 miles zone, accompanied with a 20page booklet containing computergenerated photos of entire cities Turkey would build for the refugees, and a spreadsheet detailing the $27 billion construction cost.

Western diplomats criticized the Turkish plan for its high cost and the risk to altering Syria's ethnic fabric by sending refugees to regions different from their province of origin. After Turkey launched its offensive, the U.S. and the EU  they wouldn't help finance construction in the safe zone.

Most Turks had no such qualms.

"Listen, I'm a CHP guy,"  Onur Yagcioglu, a 31yearold pharmacist, referring to the opposition party. "But I'm 100% with President Erdogan on the military intervention, and I trust he send all the refugees back to Syria."



9. America Can't Escape The Middle East A Violent Region Tests U.S. Reliability  WSJ


Ever since the national trauma of the war in Iraq, both winning presidential candidates have run on pledges to extricate the U.S. from costly Middle Eastern entanglements.

Barack Obama promised in 2008 to end the war in Iraq launched by President George W. Bush, and during his 2012 reelection campaign, he touted America's withdrawal from Iraq as a striking achievement. By the time Donald Trump won the Republican nomination in 2016, Mr. Obama had been forced to send some U.S. troops back to Iraq to prevent a takeover by the newly arisen Islamic State. Still, Mr. Trump campaigned on plans to finally end America's "endless wars" and to cease nationbuilding abroad.

"We have done them a great service, and we've done a great job for all of them, and now we're getting out," Mr. Trump  this week. "Let someone else fight over this long bloodstained sand."

Nor is there much appetite for Middle East conflicts among the Democratic frontrunners trying to replace Mr. Trump. "I think that we ought to get out of the Middle East," Sen. Elizabeth Warren  at a debate earlier this month.

The past decade has shown, however, that the U.S. can't wish away the Middle East, no matter how tempting that may be for American voters. The 2003 invasion of Iraq proved to be a debacle, but subsequent attempts to pivot away from the region or ignore it altogether have contributed to humanitarian catastrophes, terrorist outrages and geopolitical setbacks, further eroding America's standing in the world.

Mr. Trump's abrupt decision earlier this month to pull out from hitherto relatively calm northern Syria  permitting a Turkish invasion and triggering an exodus by America's abandoned Kurdish allies and a gleeful Russian takeover of deserted U.S. bases  is the latest such shock. The president's decision has elicited unusually bipartisan pushback in Congress, alarmed American partners and emboldened Iran  a country that Mr. Trump, despite his often bellicose rhetoric, allowed to get away with being the staging ground for a debilitating attack on Saudi Arabia's main oil installation in midSeptember.

"States, including Arab states, that have depended on America for a long time are suddenly feeling very worried whether this support is really there in very difficult times,"  Nabil Fahmy, who served as Egypt's foreign minister in 201314.

Such worries predate Mr. Trump's administration. In 2013, Mr. Obama's unwillingness to enforce his selfdeclared "red line" on the use of chemical weapons in Syria emboldened the regime of Bashar alAssad and sowed global doubts about America's fortitude. The worsening crisis in Syria contributed to the rise of Islamic State and to a refugee crisis that has jolted European politics, fueling the rise of the antiimmigration far right. Before that, in 2011, Mr. Obama's withdrawal of all U.S. forces from Iraq gave room for Islamic State to regroup and grow, catalyzing radical groups as far away as Nigeria and the Philippines.

"Obama made a professorial, intellectual case for retrenching from the Middle East, and Trump is offering a gutdriven argument for it,"  Emile Hokayem, a Middle East expert at the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London. "Both have the tendency to understate the immediate and mediumterm costs of retrenchment, including the possibility that they be drawn back in."

America's involvement in the greater Middle East dates back to the country's earliest days  and  began with casting aside an ally. The U.S.'s first overseas war was the 180105 campaign against the ruler of Tripoli in today's Libya, Yusuf Karamanli, who interfered with American merchant shipping in the Mediterranean and enslaved captured American sailors. That Barbary War, still celebrated in the opening lines of "The Marines' Hymn" ("To the shores of Tripoli"), sought a 19thcentury form of regime change: replacing Karamanli with his exiled older brother Hamid. After initial battles, however, the U.S. changed tack, abandoned Hamid and instead made a deal with Yusuf.

Only after  War II did the U.S. become a dominant power in the Middle East, taking over from the region's former colonial overlords, Britain and France. President Franklin D. Roosevelt's 1945 meeting with Saudi Arabia's King Abdulaziz aboard the USS Quincy in Egypt began a relationship in which the U.S. ensured the kingdom's security in exchange for access to its vast oil reserves. In 1957, in the early days of the Cold War, President Dwight Eisenhower proclaimed the socalled Eisenhower Doctrine that allowed any Middle Eastern nation to ask for American military aid if it feared outside attack. He sent U.S. Marines to Lebanon later that year.

The 1973 war between Israel and its Arab neighbors turned a commitment to the Jewish state's security into another cornerstone of America's foreign policy. And in 1980, amid a surge in oil prices and the Iranian hostage crisis, President Jimmy Carter announced his own doctrine, under which the U.S. would repel an "attempt by any outside force to gain control of the Persian Gulf region" by "any means necessary, including military force."

Still, not until Iraq's invasion of Kuwait in 1990 did the U.S. permanently deploy tens of thousands of troops to the region. Their presence in ultraconservative Saudi Arabia, in particular, became a rallying cry for the Islamist extremists who coalesced around Osama bin Laden and al Qaeda.

Following al Qaeda's Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, the U.S. invaded Afghanistan and, in 2003, Iraq  post9/11 wars that have cost trillions of dollars and killed some 7,000 U.S. service members so far. Thousands of American troops remain in both countries today.

Meanwhile, Washington went from striking a nuclear deal with Iran in 2015 under Mr. Obama to abrogating that pact under Mr. Trump and seeming to push for regime change in Tehran  then to once again trying to engage the Iranian regime diplomatically in recent months. And Mr. Trump, despite his recent decision to remove all U.S. forces from northern Syria, is now considering options for leaving about 500 troops there and sending dozens of battle tanks to retain control of oil fields.

For Middle Eastern governments, the whiplash of U.S. policy has left a sense of bewildered chaos. "American allies and America's foes are all totally confused about what the U.S. wants in the region. We don't understand, to be honest with you,"  Iraq's former national security adviser, Mowaffak alRubaie.

On the surface, the arguments for why America should now give less attention to the Middle East, with its violent conflicts and maddeningly complicated alliances, seem compelling. The 1973 oil embargo championed by Arab countries crippled America's economy, but the energy picture has changed dramatically since then: The fracking revolution has turned the U.S. into the world's largest oil power,    that can no longer be easily blackmailed with supply cuts. The Middle East is  a relatively small part of today's global economy and  with the exception of Israel  contributes little to the technological revolution transforming the world.

"The United States is overinvested in the Middle East,"  Jeremy Shapiro, the research director of the European Council on Foreign Relations in London, who worked in the State Department during the Obama administration. "Every day, you see    saying that the U.S. is losing Syria, which may be technically true  but Syria is not worth anything...It serves absolutely no purpose for U.S. foreign policy, and if the Russians and the Turks want to divide Syria, why should the U.S. care about it?"

Debate in the U.S., Mr. Shapiro added, should center on how to properly allocate the country's scarce resources to the Middle East relative to America's other areas of interest, such as East Asia. In an age of increasing bigpower competition, costly commitments to policing the region have come at the expense of the assets needed to confront a rising China and an expansionist Russia.

Mr. Trump, in a recent tweet, pointed to these global rivals, which seek to reshape the international order at America's expense, as he justified his Syria retreat: "The most unhappy countries at this move are Russia & China, because they love seeing us bogged down, watching over a quagmire, & spending big dollars to do so."

But there is no avoiding the fact that the Middle East still matters a great deal to U.S. interests. Islamist terror groups with a proven record of bringing devastation to New York, Washington, Paris and London remain a major security concern. In the past, jihadists used havens in Afghanistan, Yemen, Syria and Iraq to plot more ambitious and deadly attacks, including 9/11. Though Islamic State's selfstyled "caliphate" has been dismantled, the extremist movement still hasn't been eliminated  and can bounce back. U.S. intelligence still relies on Middle Eastern partners such as Jordan for counterterrorism cooperation, information sharing and early warnings. Intelligence officials now worry that the hasty American retreat from Syria and the loss of onthe ground information from formerly U.S.allied Kurdish forces may leave Washington in the dark about a comeback of hostile radical groups.

26 Oct 2019 02:32 ET America Can't Escape The Middle East A Violent 2

The world's main shipping lines, the bloodstream of the international economy, run through the region, which is why an impoverished country like Yemen, ravaged by a proxy war between Saudi Arabia and Iran, remains strategically significant. The Middle East's proximity to Europe  means that millions more refugees could be on the move if the region spins further into chaos. Nuclear weapons  already possessed by Israel and possibly in the future by Iran, Saudi Arabia and Turkey  add to the mix of global threats.

Another reason may be even more important, however. In other parts of the world,    and leaders are closely watching the fallout from America's behavior in the Middle East  and drawing conclusions that affect the global balance of power.

Michael Oren, a former Israeli ambassador to Washington who served until earlier this year as a deputy minister in the Israeli government, recalls meeting recently with an American military delegation and telling them: "If you think the United States as a global power can pull out of the Middle East and not endanger itself, you are deluding yourselves. When America withdraws from the Middle East unilaterally, the Russians internalize this and move into Crimea and Ukraine; the Chinese internalize it and move into the South China Sea and beyond in the Pacific." Mr. Oren added, "The Middle East is viewed by the  as a litmus test of American power."

Events in the region are  widely viewed as a litmus test of the value of American friendship. Russia, for   , is winning the argument that it can be a much more reliable ally. Moscow has stood with its brutal client, Syria's Bashar alAssad, and helped him to win his country's civil war. The U.S., by contrast, has discarded a number of allies, such as Egyptian autocrat Hosni Mubarak amid the prodemocracy protests of 2011.

Mr. Trump's startling decision to abandon the Syrian Kurdish forces, which fought side by side with U.S. troops against Islamic State, has reverberated across the region, held up as yet another example of American treachery. It wasn't the first time that the U.S. sold out the Kurds: As national security adviser, Henry Kissinger encouraged a Kurdish uprising in Iraq just to stand aside in 1975, when the Americanbacked shah of Iran reached a deal with Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein that allowed Iraqi forces to massacre the Kurds.

"No    can ever rely on U.S. promises unless they suffer from amnesia,"  Ertugrul Kurkcu, a leader of the main proKurdish party in Turkey's parliament, the   s' Democratic Party, which is allied with the Syrian Kurdish leadership. "Yet betrayal is betrayal, and this time it is committed not from behind the veil but openly and crudely, by the most selfish and greedy president of the U.S. This bitter lesson always be remembered not only by the Kurds but  by the Arabs and the Turks."

While Russia benefits from such U.S. policies, it can gain only so much in the region. "Syria shows that Russia can become a major political player with a rather small investment,"  Yury Barmin of the Moscow Policy Group, a Russian consulting firm. "But nobody in Russia is ready to make huge investments to replace the United States in the Middle East. We just don't have this kind of financial resources."

Whatever their verdict about Mr. Trump's abrupt pullout from Syria, some experts believe that the country was the wrong theater for proving the value of America's global commitments to its allies. "Nations judge their interests based on what they see on the table, not projections of credibility based on events thousands of miles away,"  Robert Ford, a scholar at the Middle East Institute in Washington who served as U.S. ambassador to Syria under Mr. Obama. "If we make American credibility the reason to stay in Syria, we are on a very dangerous slope  the slope that took us to Vietnam in the 1960s, in competition with Russia and China. If lines are to be drawn in the sand, they have to be drawn in places that matter to us."

The U.S. difficulty in doing that in the Middle East has bred uncertainty among both its friends and its foes there. "The decades, it has been very difficult to read what America really wants to do and how far it wants to go. First it was in a regimechange posture, going into wars without any factual evidence. Then it wants to pivot out and wants to withdraw,"  Mr. Fahmy, the former Egyptian foreign minister. "The problem is that these policies are not just shifting gradually, they are changing day to day. And this creates a political vacuum and instability."



10. Middle East News
World
U.S. Weighs Leaving More Troops, Sending Battle Tanks to Syria; Options represent a shift from the pullout President Trump wanted and modify U.S. objectives—from countering Islamic State to  
Washington sees the fields as potential leverage in future negotiations over Syria.

"We NEVER let a reconstituted ISIS have those fields!" Mr. Trump  Thursday in a Twitter message, referring to Islamic State.

The options for tanks and troops, which haven't been decided, were being discussed in Washington as Defense Secretary Mark Esper, in Brussels, urged U.S. allies at a North Atlantic Treaty Organization meeting to respond to Turkey's incursion into Syria[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/usdefensesecretarycallsonadividednatotoreininturkey11571929895] earlier this month.

Mr. Esper's request came amid fissures in the security bloc's approach to the crisis and over the Trump administration's policy shifts. Mr. Trump earlier this month ordered all U.S. troops out of northern Syria, a move that was criticized by Kurdish fighters allied with the U.S. as an abandonment.

Critics say Turkey launched the mission because it believed Mr. Trump greenlighted the move during an Oct. 6 call with Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Mr. Trump  he didn't give a goahead for the assault. The U.S. leader then imposed sanctions on Turkey and threatened to destroy the NATO ally's economy before lifting the sanctions when Turkey announced a ceasefire.

Mr. Esper  he supported a proposal this week by German Defense Minister Annegret KrampKarrenbauer to create an international security zone in northern Syria with Russia and Turkey, which have already made their own deal to secure the region.

Ms. KrampKarrenbauer outlined her proposal at the NATO meeting, noting that the RussiaTurkey deal was insufficient to bring longterm peace.

"There are different views," NATO SecretaryGeneral Jens Stoltenberg told reporters Thursday evening. "This was an open and frank discussion among friends and allies. There is strong support for a political solution."

Mr. Trump, after ordering all U.S. forces out of northeastern Syria in early October,  later that he would agree to leave about 200 troops in northeast Syria to safeguard oil fields. The move came after Sen. Lindsey Graham (R., S.C.) outlined the potential importance of the oil.

Mr. Graham suggested in remarks to reporters at the Capitol on Thursday that American troops would end up securing the oil fields. He was among eight to 10 senators briefed by the White House on Thursday.

"There are some plans coming together from the Joint Chiefs that I think may work, that may give us what we need to prevent ISIS from coming back, Iran taking the oil, ISIS from taking the oil," he . "I am somewhat encouraged that a plan is coming about that meet our core objectives in Syria."

The top U.S. envoy for Syria, James Jeffrey,  in testimony Wednesday before the House Foreign Affairs Committee that the U.S.  may hang onto a Syrian airfield. "We do contemplate, I believe, maintaining    of our airfields that are there," Mr. Jeffrey . The option of sending tanks was earlier reported by Newsweek.

A U.S. Army convoy headed to a U.S. base in Erbil, Iraq, this week after pulling out from their positions in Syria. PHOTO: Manu Brabo for The Wall Street Journal

While the Trump administration's plans for U.S. troops in Syria shifts, so do the plans for what to do with the approximately 1,000 U.S. troops, most of them special operations forces, following Mr. Trump's order to withdraw.

Mr. Esper  over the weekend that most of the troops would go to neighboring Iraq, triggering a pointed reaction from Baghdad, where officials  those troops would only be able to remain for a period of four weeks.

Meeting at NATO headquarters, Mr. Esper criticized Ankara for its assault. "Turkey's unwarranted incursion into northern Syria jeopardizes the gains made there in recent years," Mr. Esper . "Turkey put us all in a terrible situation," he added later.

For NATO, disagreement over how to address Turkey's actions strikes another blow to the unity of an alliance already rocked by Mr. Trump's frequent broadsides over what he says is insufficient military spending by allies. French President Emmanuel Macron—whose country has special forces in northern Syria—has responded with anger over the abrupt U.S. move to withdraw troops from Syria, which he  he learned about on Twitter.

Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has further exasperated NATO allies by deepening his relationship with President Vladimir Putin, including through the purchase of an airdefense system from Russia.

"The direction of Turkey with regard to the alliance is heading in the wrong direction," Mr. Esper .

More Coverage

 Russia Strikes Syrian Rebel Stronghold, Raising Fears of Assad Regime Offensive[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/russiastrikessyrianrebelstrongholdraisingfearsofassadregimeoffensive11571929496]

 Turkey, Russia Start Clock on Kurdish Withdrawal From Northern Syria[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/turkeyrussiastartclockonkurdishwithdrawalfromnorthernsyria11571832745]

 Syrian Conflict Traps Refugees in an Exodus to Nowhere[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/syrianconflicttrapsrefugeesinanexodustonowhere11571761535]



11.


U.K. Police Investigate Bodies Found in Truck  WSJ
 British police are investigating how the bodies of 39    wound up in a truck container at an industrial park near London, reviving longstanding concerns about the reach and practices of criminal trafficking gangs.

Essex police  they opened a murder investigation after an ambulance service alerted them to the discovery at Waterglade Industrial Park in Grays, around 16 miles east of London, shortly before 1:40 a.m. Wednesday. All 39  38 adults and    teenager, according to early indications  were pronounced dead at the scene and the driver, who was from Northern Ireland, was arrested.

Speaking in Parliament, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson  the discovery of the bodies was the result of "an appalling crime."

"All such traders in human beings should be hunted down and brought to justice," he .

Police  they are in the process of identifying the victims. Deputy Chief Constable for Essex Pippa Mills  it would likely be a lengthy process.

Authorities are  working to trace the exact route of the container to better understand what happened.

Initially, police  they believed it originated in Bulgaria, an important transshipment point for traffickers, and entered Britain on Oct. 19 at the port of Holyhead in Wales, which serves ferries and other shipping from Dublin. That prompted speculation that the truck had passed through Ireland. Irish Prime Minister Leo Varadkar pledged to help British authorities figure out where it had been.

"It is a real, terrible and human tragedy and we'll carry out any investigations that are necessary if it's established that the truck did pass through Ireland," Mr. Varadkar told lawmakers.

Later in the afternoon, however, police  they believed the trailer traveled from Zeebrugge in Belgium to Purfleet, near Grays, and docked in the area shortly after 12.30 a.m. Wednesday.

The tractor unit is now believed to have traveled from Northern Ireland, and left the port with the container and trailer shortly after 1:05 a.m.

The rig, a Scania, was registered in the Bulgarian seaside city of Varna by a company owned by an Irish citizen, according to the Bulgarian Foreign Ministry.

According to the Bulgarian national radio, the truck left the country on June 20, 2017, a day after it was registered.

"Since the truck was registered, it has never entered Bulgaria again," Bulgarian media reported Prime Minister Boyko Borisov as saying. "There is no way we can be connected with this except via the truck's plates."

The owner of the company has more trucks registered in Bulgaria, Mr. Borisov .

"This be a lengthy and complex investigation and we continue to work with local partners and international authorities to gather vital intelligence and identify those who died," Essex police  in a statement.

The incident is likely to refocus attention on criminal gangs trafficking    into Europe and the risks that wouldbe migrants take to begin a new life.

Thousands of    have died attempting to cross the Mediterranean in recent years, according to the International Organization for Migration. Their journeys can be precarious, even if they make it to land.

Earlier this year, six migrants were killed and 10 injured when a vehicle smuggling them through the north of Greece crashed into a ditch.

In 2015, Austrian police found 71 corpses in an abandoned delivery truck parked off a highway near Vienna. The victims were from Iraq, Afghanistan and Syria.

In previous years, illegal immigrants from China died trying to enter Britain; 58 Chinese nationals suffocated to death in the back of a lorry at the port of Dover in 2000.

The problem was highlighted further in 2004 when 21 illegal immigrants, again from China, drowned or succumbed to hypothermia when they were cut off by the tide when harvesting cockles in Morecambe Bay in northern England. Police investigations later showed they had entered the country through shipping containers.

Georgi Kantchev in Moscow contributed to this article.

Write to James Hookway at james.hookway@wsj.com

Corrections & Amplifications Morecambe Bay is in northern England. An earlier version of this article misspelled it as Morecombe Bay. (Oct. 23, 2019)




12. Election 2020
Politics
Democrats Criticize Trump on Syria but Offer Few Plans of Their Own; White House candidates are hesitant to spell out their policies toward engagement in the Middle East

WASHINGTON—Democratic presidential contenders are unanimously condemning President Trump's withdrawal[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/housepassesresolutionopposingtrumpswithdrawalofustroopsfromnortheastsyria11571251777] of U.S. troops from Syria, calling the decision a reckless move that undermines allies in the region while emboldening adversaries.

But when pressed to detail an alternate strategy in Syria, the candidates are hesitant to spell out what their policies toward engagement in the Middle East would entail.

Amid renewed a debate over America's footprint in the Mideast[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/ustroopwithdrawalupendssyriapolicyleavingasearchforsolutions11571146202], Democrats seeking the White House in 2020 are decrying Mr. Trump's

abrupt drawdown of roughly 100 troops[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/americantroopstowithdrawfromnorthernsyriaaheadofturkishincursion11570421205] from northeast Syria, while agreeing with his underlying impulse to reduce U.S. troop levels in the region and steer clear of conflicts overseas.

SHARE YOUR THOUGHTS

Should President Trump be doing something differently in Syria? Why or why not? Join the conversation below.

"As president, I tell you, I always take any threat to our security very seriously and do what is necessary to avert any threat to our nation's security," California Sen. Kamala Harris  following a campaign event in Tipton, Iowa, week. "But I can't tell you what the circumstances be when I'm elected."

Asked if there was still a role for U.S. troops in the region, Ms. Harris : "I don't know. I don't know. Because it is that unpredictable with Donald Trump."

The Syrian drawdown has faced bipartisan pushback from lawmakers[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/trumpsforeignpolicyfacesrivalplansincongress11571665239] in Washington, many of whom say it marked an abandonment of Kurdish allies who participated in the fight against Islamic State. The decision paved the way for Turkey's incursion into northeast Syria, has strengthened the hand of terrorists and casts doubt on America's reliability[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/ustroopscrossintoiraqastheywithdrawfromsyria11571649101] as a military partner, critics say. And despite the president's vow to reduce U.S. military involvement overseas, there are more troops in the Mideast than when he took office.

Minnesota Sen. Amy Klobuchar says the U.S. shouldn't have withdrawn troops "before we had a responsible and enforceable plan in place that protected our Kurdish allies and prevented ISIS from regrouping."

But the role of U.S. troops in the region moving forward, she , would be contingent upon whether military commanders and experts "conclude that troops in northeast Syria are providing security to our allies and partners and countering threats to our national security."

The Wall Street Journal reached out to all of the 2020 Democratic campaigns for more specifics on how the candidates would approach the yearslong civil war in Syria, and in what capacity the U.S. should engage militarily in the region. Seven of the 19 responded.

Tommy Vietor, who served as the National Security Council's spokesman under President Obama,  politicians have grown warweary following nearly decades of military engagement in the Middle East.

"Politically, a lot of this is coming from a lingering understanding that the war in Iraq was    of the biggest strategic disasters in our country's history," Mr. Vietor .

Democrats' position on foreign policy is reminiscent of their dilemma with Mr. Trump on trade. Many in the field agree with him that freetrade deals have hurt American workers and that China's strength must be checked. Instead, they have criticized his approach to tariffs or taken issue with provisions in the renegotiated North American Free Trade Agreement.

During week's Democratic debate, Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren  the U.S. should get out of the Middle East, forcing her campaign to later clarify that she was referring only to combat troops. But the comments reinforced an appetite among progressives to reduce the nation's entanglements overseas.

A spokeswoman for Ms. Warren  the senator "believes that we have important economic and security interests in the Middle East, but 20 years of combat missions in the region have not advanced them."

"As president, she would refocus on realistic goals and use diplomatic, intelligence, and development tools to achieve them,"  Alexis Krieg, a campaign spokeswoman.

Campaigning in Davenport, Iowa, week, former Vice President Joe Biden delivered a scathing rebuke of U.S. foreign policy under Mr. Trump, while touting his own record as vice president, including negotiating with Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan and the Obama administration's support for U.S.allied Kurds in the region in the fight against Islamic State.

But when Mr. Biden pivoted to how he would address the crisis if elected president, he spoke in general terms of working toward a resolution with NATO allies and providing humanitarian support. At    point, Mr. Biden  there were perhaps no good answers in the region.

"We shouldn't fool ourselves—there may never be a solution in Syria that satisfies our best hope for a region at peace with itself," Mr. Biden . "No    wants American troops to be forever embroiled in conflict in the Middle East or 'nationbuilding.'"

A spokesperson for Mr. Biden's campaign didn't respond when asked if he would reengage U.S. troops in Syria and in what capacity.

A spokesperson for South Bend, Ind., Mayor Pete Buttigieg pointed to a recent interview with NBC, in which the candidate  the U.S. would need to maintain a presence in the Middle East comprised mostly of counterterrorism activities and special operations troops to assist local forces on the ground.

"The way to do it is to stay ahead of these problems, to engage our allies and to lead an international community to promote stability and peace," Mr. Buttigieg , even as he acknowledged "it be messy for probably as long as I'm alive."

Hawaii Rep. Tulsi Gabbard was among the few candidates who flatly  it was "too late" to send troops back to northeast Syria.

"I've long called for an end to this regimechange war to topple the Syrian government,"  Ms. Gabbard, who was widely criticized for meeting with Syrian President Bashar alAssad in 2017 and subsequently defending his regime. "It has led to hundreds of thousands of deaths, millions of refugees, destabilized Syria and the whole region, strengthened al Qaeda and ISIS and caused immense human suffering."

Ms. Gabbard  the U.S. should, however, remain involved diplomatically and maintain a small number of American special forces "to carry out quickstrike operations against ISIS, al Qaeda and other terrorist organizations."

Polling has shown that while a majority of Americans oppose Mr. Trump's troop withdrawal in Syria, they remain wary of endless fighting in the Middle East. As a result, candidates have often struggled to toe the line between scaling back U.S. involvement overseas and the realities of withdrawing troops from decadeslong conflicts.

Mr. Vietor, the former Obama aide,  the complexities of foreign policy can't easily be distilled into campaign sound bites, leaving little room for nuance.

"Part of the challenge is there's no such thing as a Syria policy because there are actually many priorities and they're often competing," he . "Specificity is not particularly helpful … but it could be politically damaging."

13. 
Russia to Help Turkey Forge Buffer in Syria  WSJ
SOCHI, Russia  Russia agreed to help Turkey drive out Kurdish militias from a "safe zone" in northeastern Syria, highlighting Moscow's flourishing ties with a NATO member and a rebalance of power in wartorn Syria as U.S. troops leave.

Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan  he would suspend military action for nearly six days against Kurds who his government views as a terrorist threat to let them evacuate the area. During this period, Russian and Syrian security forces would push any remaining Kurdish fighters away from Turkey's border.

After their departure, Turkey and Russia plan to conduct joint patrols in parts of a 300milelong area along Turkey's border with Syria, Mr. Erdogan  Tuesday after talks with Russian President Vladimir Putin. The pact "could be a turning point," Mr. Putin  in the Black Sea resort town of Sochi.

Russia and Turkey are seeking to divide influence in Syria as U.S. troops pull out and Washington's power in the region wanes. Mr. Putin has displayed a willingness to help Mr. Erdogan, in part to lure Turkey, a member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, toward Russia's orbit.

Russian support for Turkey's plan is likely to upset Syrian President Bashar alAssad's other backer, Iran, which has condemned Turkey's assault against the Syrian Kurds.

President Trump's sudden withdrawal order was criticized by Republican and Democratic senators at a hearing of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee on Tuesday, with many saying the move undermined an array of U.S. foreignpolicy objectives, empowered U.S. foes and undercut the fight against the Islamic State extremist group.

"It is clear that the United States has been sidelined,"  Sen. Bob Menendez (DN.J.), the ranking minority member of the committee. "Russia and the murderous Assad regime are calling the shots."

James Jeffrey, the State Department's special envoy for Syria and the Islamic State fight, defended the policy, saying U.S. was maintaining ties with Kurdish military leaders in other parts of Syria and that options for cooperation were being considered. Mr. Trump has  he wants the U.S. to play a role in safeguarding oil fields.

The PutinErdogan talks coincided with the expiration Tuesday of a fiveday truce. Mr. Erdogan agreed to halt the military offensive he launched in northeastern Syria on Oct. 9 in exchange for a U.S. commitment to help drive Kurdish fighters away from the Syrian border towns of TalAbiad and Ras alAin. The Kurdish forces told the White House on Tuesday that they completed their withdrawal from that area.

In addition to repelling Kurdish fighters, Ankara wants control over territories in northeastern Syria to relocate half of the nearly four million Syrian refugees living in Turkey. But the pact with Washington covers only about a quarter of Mr. Erdogan's proposed 300milelong safe zone.

The new accord with Russia covers the other threequarters, according to Mr. Erdogan. After the truce ends, Russia and Turkey patrol the border strip with a depth of 6.2 miles but won't enter the Kurdishheld town of Qamishli, Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu , where the Assad regime has established a presence.

Mr. Putin reiterated that "Syria must be free from foreign military presence," and invited Turkey, which severed its diplomatic relations with the Assad regime shortly after the beginning of the war, to cooperate with Damascus.

"Both Turkey and Syria have to join their efforts,"  Mr. Putin, who spoke with Mr. Assad on Tuesday, according to Russian state media. "This is why they need to respect each other."

The agreement with Russia is a breakthrough, Metin Gurcan, a retired Turkish military officer , because Moscow is endorsing a solution to Turkey's problem with Kurdish fighters near its border that was long rejected by Washington. "But we test promises on the field," he cautioned, noting that Mr. Putin had kept mum on many details.

The developments came as most of the 1,000 U.S. troops who were allied with Kurdish forces in fighting Islamic State in Syria were leaving the area under orders from Mr. Trump. Civilians in Kurdish areas hurled insults at a U.S. troop convoy that crossed from northern Syria into Iraq on Monday, venting anger over a withdrawal they see as a betrayal.

On Tuesday, Syrian military units moved into several new villages in northeast Syria as part of the agreement with the Kurds, according to Syrian government media. The seven villages lie along the strategic M4 highway, which extends across northern Syria, connecting the city of Hasakah with Aleppo.

Turkish authorities have played down prospects of a direct conflict with Damascus. But Turkey relied on Syrian rebels who fought against the Assad regime as part of its ground incursion in Kurdishheld territories, raising concerns of violent clashes if they come in contact with Syrian regime troops.

Mr. Putin has warned he would only accommodate a limited Turkish incursion in Syria. But Russia is facing its own challenges in Syria, which set the stage for the deal between Turkey and Russia.

In April, Syrian government troops and Russian combat jets launched an offensive to reclaim the northwestern Syrian province of Idlib, the bastion held by rebels fighting the Assad regime, some of whom are supported by Ankara.    of Russia's objectives is to protect the nearby Khmeimim air base because it has been within firing range from the rebel stronghold.

The confrontation sent half a million    fleeing, forcing them to seek refuge in makeshift camps along the Turkish border. All summer, Mr. Erdogan sounded the alarm over the humanitarian toll in Idlib, and Russia agreed to suspend airstrikes in late August.

With Russia's agreement to help Turkey in its safezone project, Turkish officials and analysts  the price to pay be to let Russia and the Assad regime complete their offensive in Idlib.

"Mr. Putin definitely put pressure on Mr. Erdogan regarding Idlib,"  Pavel Baev, a professor at the Peace Research Institute Oslo and a former analyst at the Soviet Ministry of Defense.

Mr. Putin has  the offensive in Idlib was legitimate because the province had fallen under the control of radical groups.

Highlighting Idlib's importance in the negotiations, Syrian state media showed Mr. Assad touring the front lines separating government troops from rebel groups in the province. "Erdogan is a robber...He has robbed the factories, wheat and oil, and today he is robbing the land," he  in a statement carried by state media.

Asked week if such an arrangement would be under consideration in Sochi, Mr. Erdogan  he was satisfied with Russia's adherence to its August ceasefire pledge. Idlib "isn't on my agenda but we can remind each other about this," Mr. Erdogan .

As the ceasefire drew to an end, the flow of Syrians into Iraq increased sharply, according to Tom PeyreCosta, a spokesman for the Norwegian Refugee Council. Within the past 24 hours, 1,736 refugees had arrived, he  Tuesday, bringing the total to 7,135 since the start of the Turkish offensive.

Mr. Trump on Monday authorized $4.5 million in direct support to the Syria Civil Defense, a rescue organization  known as the White Helmets, White House press secretary Stephanie Grisham  Tuesday, praising the organization's "important and highly valued work in the country."



14. 
Syrian Kurdish Fighters Tell U.S. They Have Withdrawn From Turkey's Safe Zone; Pence received letter Tuesday from Syrian Democratic Forces commander saying his forces had left safe area

WASHINGTON—Kurdish forces have told the Trump administration that they have completed their withdrawal from a safe zone along the TurkeySyria border, a senior U.S. official , as required under a temporary truce[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/penceleadsuseffortstohaltturkeyoffensiveinsyria11571308486].

Mazloum Abdi, head of the Kurdishled Syrian Democratic Forces,  in a letter Tuesday to Vice President Mike Pence that the withdrawal had taken place as defined under an agreement[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/kurdsblameturkeyforhinderingexitfromsyrianborderarea11571566257]between the U.S. and Turkey week.

The letter came hours before the expiration of the fiveday truce, reached in a day of talks week between Mr. Pence and Turkish President that Recep Tayyip Erdogan.

Turkish officials didn't immediately comment on the Kurdish claim, but the senior U.S. official  Turkey would be entitled to use force if Kurdish forces were still within the safe zone.

"If the Turks can find any inside the safe zone ... the Turks either let us know or they shoot them," the official .

The U.S. is fairly confident that the Kurdish forces are adhering to the agreement, the official , but added the U.S. didn't have means to verify the information.

Most of the 1,000 U.S. troops who were allied with Kurdish forces in fighting Islamic State in Syria are leaving the area under orders from President Trump.

Turkey has been requesting confirmation that the Kurdish forces all have left, the senior U.S. official .

Mr. Erdogan agreed to halt the military offensive he launched in northeastern Syria on Oct. 9 in exchange for a U.S. commitment to help drive Kurdish fighters away from the Turkish border.

In return, the U.S.  it would lift sanctions imposed against Turkey earlier this month as punishment for the assault.

An agreement between Mr. Erdogan and Russian President Vladimir Putin[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/erdoganseeksputinssupporttocarveoutsyrianbufferzone11571737838] in talks Tuesday in Russia could affect the status of the ceasefire and the Kurdish presence in the area. The Russian and Turkish leaders agreed on a further ceasefire and on joint patrols.

The U.S. official warned that Turkey would risk sanctions if it were to move beyond the area delineated under the agreement between Washington and Ankara.

The agreement with Washington covers only about a quarter of Mr. Erdogan's proposed 300milelong safe zone.

In addition to repelling Kurdish fighters, Ankara wants control over territories in northeastern Syria to relocate half of the nearly four million Syrian refugees living in Turkey.

"Any Turkish kinetic military operations that moves forward at the end of this 120hour period... lead to us concluding the Turks have violated our agreement, with the inevitable sanctions," the official .

Mr. Trump imposed sanctions[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/presidenttrumptoweighretaliatoryoptionsagainstturkey11571072243]last week on three Turkish ministers and ministries, defense and energy resources. He  increased steel tariffs by 50%, after lowering them from that level in May.

A major concern is the fate of Kobani[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/turkeytoallowtransferofiraqikurdishfighterstokobani1413810406], a large ethnicKurdish area in the northeast. The U.S. still has troops in the landing zone to the south of Kobani, the official , adding that the Syrian Kurds have  they not retreat further than the area covered by the agreement.

The official  the Trump administration was still reviewing options for the U.S. troop presence in Syria. In addition leaving some troops to protect oil fields mostly controlled by Kurds in the northeast, the U.S. has a garrison in southern Syria at Al Tanf.

A continued U.S. presence could help keep Syria's oil fields out of Russian hands and maintain a U.S. relationship with the Syrian Kurds, while exerting a modicum of influence in the region as Washington tries to encourage the Turks and the Kurds to maintain their shaky ceasefire.

Any U.S. troop presence would be protected by American air power, officials have .

The U.S. is hoping the fiveday ceasefire evolve into a more permanent and stable halt in hostilities. Both sides have accused the other of ceasefire violations, but the truce largely has held in the safe zone, U.S. officials have .



15. Middle East News

Lebanese Protests Triggered by WhatsApp Tax Rattle Government; Demonstrators blame officials for inciting sectarianism and advancing interests of regional powers

BEIRUT—Thousands of    took to the streets across Lebanon against an intensifying economic crisis in the country, threatening to bring down a government caught between the demands of regional rivals Saudi Arabia and Iran[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/haririwantslebanonkeptoutofthesaudiiranianconflict1515697159].

Friday's protests were triggered by a proposal the government put forward a day earlier to tax    for using WhatsApp, as it tries to generate enough revenue to service its huge debt pile. The rapid withdrawal of the proposal failed to assuage protesters frustrated by the government's failure to rein in corruption.

Activists on motorcycles zipped through the city, chanting antigovernment slogans and urging    to shut down the main highway running through the capital. On Thursday night, they burned barricades built from trash, wood pallets and garbage bins in downtown Beirut, an area popular with tourists.

In response, the government canceled a cabinet session on Friday and dispatched riot police to the streets in case the protests turn violent.

Demonstrators from across the political spectrum called for the coalition government to resign, echoing anticorruption chants heard recently in Iraq and Egypt[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/egyptbracesformoreantisisiprotests11569590168]. The expanding regional outrage over perceived economic mismanagement and government incompetence has served as a reminder of the widespread regional protests during the Arab Spring uprisings of 2011.

At that time, the spark for regional demonstrations was a young Tunisian street vendor who set himself on fire in protest against police officers who routinely stole his fruit. This time, in Lebanon, it was a proposed $6amonth tax on WhatsApp, the popular socialmessaging app.

The protests, which have been largely peaceful, threaten to bring down Prime Minister Saad Hariri, who has struggled to balance competing demands emanating from Saudi Arabia and Iran. Riyadh supports Mr. Hariri and his largely Sunni Muslim party, while Tehran backs the Shiite Hezbollah group, which is part of the coalition government. The Trump administration is  increasing pressure on Lebanon to contain Iran's influence in the country.

Mr. Hariri tried to address the protesters' concerns on live TV Friday evening, promising to take action soon.

"I give myself a short period, which is 72 hours, for my partners to give me an answer that convinces me and convinces those who are expressing anger and the international community," the prime minister . "Otherwise the conversation change."

Demonstrators blamed officials for inciting sectarianism and advancing the interest of regional powers at the expense of the Lebanese   .

The Saudi Embassy in Lebanon  on Twitter it would evacuate its citizens.

Protesters in Beirut chanted slogans heard across the Arab world.

"The    want the downfall of the regime," they repeated as they marched through Beirut's streets, echoing chants heard in Iraq and Egypt in recent weeks that have been met with severe government crackdowns.

Chief among Beirut's woes is a currency crunch and shortage of U.S. dollars. The peg of the Lebanese lira to the U.S. dollar, which has endured for more than decades, appears to be faltering. In the black market, conversion rates have gone up as high as 1,650 to the dollar, compared with the official rate of 1,507.

More than    million Syrian refugees have stretched Lebanon's infrastructure to its limit. To make up for shortages in electricity and water provided by the state, households often have to buy from private suppliers, paying bills for each utility.

Turkey's incursion in Syria has ensured that Lebanon's refugee crisis persist as Syria's security conditions grow more unstable[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/fightingflaresinsyriadespitehoursoldceasefire11571390556].

Residents across Lebanon were further outraged earlier this week by the government's inability to quickly contain wildfires that spread through the country's Chouf Mountains.

Officials brought in police riotcontrol trucks with water cannon to contain the fires because firefighting helicopters weren't being properly maintained. Hundreds of    fled their homes and a firefighter was killed while fighting the blaze.

"They spend millions on their fancy trips and all we needed was $400,000 for maintaining the helicopters,"  Redwan Mortada, a retired math teacher who joined the demonstrations on Friday. "They could have given us that at least. They would have even still made money off of it through their commissions."



16. Declarations

Trump's Reckless Rush to Withdraw; The Syria pullout boosts the impression that he's all impulse, blithely operating out of his depth.


One thing I think I've correctly observed about the U.S. military in the 21st century is that its leaders tend to be the to want to go to war and the to want to leave it. Political figures operate under public pressures and shifting geopolitical needs and goals; they're surrounded by    who see the  a certain way; they get revved up, and say, "Go, invade." Top military staff have reservations. They've studied the area, know the realities, the history—they have doctorates in it—and don't want to get into anything America can't win cleanly, decisively, relatively quickly. They're skeptics.

In the end the commander in chief makes the decision and they do their constitutional duty. Troops are deployed and perform. They dig in and fight, they're professionals—they commit.

The political figures then decide after a few years—or decades—that it's time to come home. Military leaders are skeptical again. They've been in this thing a while, they're committed to the battle space, they've lost men, they know and care about their allies in the fight, they have a sharp sense of the repercussions of withdrawal. They want more time.

I suspect the current habit of skepticism springs in part from the military's generationslong reckoning with Vietnam. You can see it in Lt. Gen. H.R. McMaster's influential 1997 book, "Dereliction of Duty." "The war in Vietnam was not lost in the field, nor was it lost on the front pages of the New York Times," Donald Trump's second national security adviser writes. "It was lost in Washington, D.C." Responsibility for the failure rested not only with President Lyndon B. Johnson and his civilian advisers but  his military advisers, particularly the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Between the lines Gen. McMaster was telling the current military: Don't claim to see lights at the ends of tunnels when you don't really see them, play it straight. Be forthcoming with political leaders—and the public—about "likely costs and consequences."

Anyway, history is human. Military leaders have their ways and biases. But public military opposition to the president's withdrawal of U.S. forces from northern Syria, after a Sunday telephone call with Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, seems to me completely correct. Gen. John Allen, a retired Marine, , "If we were going to draw a circle around a group of American troops who are more important right now to the stabilization of any place on the planet, it's that thousand troops." He  of Turkey's incursion into Syria, "This is just chaos." Retired Adm. James Stavridis  it lead to the comeback of ISIS and embolden other U.S. adversaries. He noted that it's some kind of policy that can unite, in opposition, Sens. Lindsey Graham and Bernie Sanders.



More compelling is what Jennifer Griffin, the respected nationalsecurity correspondent for Fox News, reported Wednesday night. She spoke to a "distraught" U.S. Special Forces soldier on the ground alongside the Kurdish forces that were about to be abandoned. "It was    of the hardest phone calls I have ever taken," she tweeted. The soldier told her "I am ashamed for the first time in my career." He , "There was no threat to the Turks—none—from this side of the border." The Kurds, who are guarding thousands of ISIS prisoners, had just prevented a prison break and were pleading for U.S. support. Without it, the soldier , those detainees would likely soon be free. Of the president: "He doesn't understand the problem. He doesn't understand the repercussions to this." "It's a shame," he added. "The Kurds are standing by us. No other partner I have ever dealt with would stand by us."

I believe every word of this.

Why this decision? Why now?

To redeem a campaign pledge with another campaign looming? On impulse? What was behind the impulse? The president doesn't seem to know much about the Kurds—that they've backed the U.S. since 2003 and fought ISIS since 2011. They have their reasons: They want their own state. But they are a gallant   , brave and sympathetic to the West.

The president, defending this decision, asked what we owe them. "They didn't help us in the Second  War, at Normandy for example."

Yes, I forgot. Reagan made that point in his Pointe du Hoc speech. He , "Don't forget to stick it to the Kurds for not showing up." Oh wait, he didn't say that, because he was quite the reader of history.

Mr. Trump, in defending his position, says he is against the "endless wars" that have marked the first decades of this century. Fair and good, the right approach, he ran for president opposing them and Americans left and right agreed.

But there is too much craziness to the decision, both its substance and how it was made. The area has been functioning, the number of U.S. troops small and limited. Adm. Stavridis called it "a small investment with a big spring to it."

The decision was done on the word of Mr. Erdogan, a particular kind of player—thuggish, duplicitous. He considers the Kurds on his border a security threat. He threatens to send Syrian refugees to Europe if European countries call his incursion an occupation. If they insult him like that, "We open the gates and send 3.6 million refugees your way."

Mr. Trump himself says if the ISIS terrorists the Kurds are holding in prison are freed or escape, no worry. "They're going to be escaping to Europe," he . "They want to go back to their homes."

That's a viciously careless way to treat your allies. Who, by the way, were at Normandy.

Most unsettling was the president's mad tweet assuring critics that his decision was right: "If Turkey does anything that I, in my great and unmatched wisdom, consider to be off limits, I totally destroy and obliterate the Economy of Turkey (I've done before!)." This isn't funny, it's selfinflated nut stuff.

The president is misreading his base, which have qualms. Their sons and daughters fought in the wars; they know who the Kurds are.

Why would he do such a dramatic, piercing thing at what is for him a dramatic, piercing moment, with impeachment looming and support for it rising in the polls? Why offend Republicans senators, whom the president needs to survive impeachment? Why give them an excuse to start peeling off?

Why give those of his supporters who are cablenews hacks an excuse to show some pride? I'm not a lackey, this is about principle, the president has made a misjudgment! Watch it, they could get in the habit of selfrespect.

The Syria decision contributes to the hardened impression that in foreign policy he's all impulse, blithely operating out of his depth. It adds to the hardening suspicion that in negotiations he's not actually tough; he'll say yes to a lot of things, and some very bad things, to get the deal, the photoop, the triumphant handshake.

Foreignpolicy decisions in this administration look like the ball in a pinball machine in some garish arcade with flashing lights and some frantic guy pushing the levers ping ping ping and thinking he's winning.



17. Turkey Has Legitimate Grievances Against the U.S.


President Trump's critics see his decision to withdraw U.S. forces from northern Syria as the product of a dangerous impulsiveness that ignores strategic realities. They argue that it betrays the   's Protection Units, or YPG, the Kurdish force that helped the U.S. defeat Islamic State, while rewarding a dangerous autocrat, Turkey's President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. But it is Mr. Trump's critics who disregard reality.

Most members of America's foreignpolicy establishment see Turkey as an ungrateful ally, perhaps even a Trojan horse inside the North Atlantic Treaty Organization's walls. On Capitol Hill and in many Washington think tanks, a call for concessions to Tehran get a more sympathetic hearing than a call to compromise with Ankara, a treaty ally for 67 years. Turkey's determination to secure its southern border against the YPG is a wanton impulse, in the prevailing view. But the YPG has substantial ties to the Kurdistan Workers' Party, the PKK, as thenDefense Secretary Ash Carter testified before Congress in April 2016. Classified by the State Department as a terrorist organization, the PKK has been waging armed struggle against Turkey since 1984 at a cost of tens of thousands of lives, according to the Uppsala Conflict Data Program, a respected source on armed conflict.

Turkey's critics point to Ankara's recent purchase of the S400 airdefense missile system from Russia to confirm their belief that Mr. Erdogan is rupturing the U.S.Turkey relationship. But that's an oversimplification that rests on a lazy assumption  that Mr. Erdogan's personality is the root of the rancor in AmericanTurkish relations. It invokes his authoritarianism, Islamist worldview, hostility to Israel, sympathy for the Muslim Brotherhood, and opposition to Kurdish nationalists inside and outside Turkey's borders to argue that Turkey is unworthy of U.S. support.

Some articles of this indictment rest on a more solid evidentiary base than others. But the causes of Ankara's recent willingness to defy Washington go beyond    man's personality. Polls reliably indicate that 70% to 80% of Turks regard the U.S. as a hostile power. While antiAmericanism is an old story in Turkey, in recent years it has a sharper edge. Turks increasingly see America as a threat.

This is a remarkable development in a country that had been a stalwart U.S. ally and partner for decades. The levels of hostility to America cannot be laid on Mr. Erdogan's doorstep, for he commands the support of only around 40% of Turks. Dissatisfaction with the U.S. stretches far beyond the president's AK Party.

Why is the U.S. losing Turkey? Turks have their own list of grievances, of which three stand out.

First, America's diffident Syria policy. Ankara followed Washington's lead in backing the Syrian   's attempt to overthrow the dictator Bashar Assad. But when Turkey shot down a Russian combat jet violating its airspace in 2015, President Obama treated the episode more as a bilateral spat between third parties than as a conflict between America's key regional ally and a more powerful adversary of U.S. interests. Left on its own, Ankara realized it had little choice but to accommodate Moscow. Vladimir Putin's steadfastness trumped Mr. Obama's aloofness. Thus was born the relationship that begot the S400 deal.

Second is the curious sympathy that America extends to Fethullah Gulen, a gurulike religious figure who has been residing in Pennsylvania since 1999. The Department of Homeland Security originally denied Mr. Gulen's application for a residence permit under the Bush administration, finding that Mr. Gulen's claims regarding his educational abilities were exaggerated. Mr. Gulen's schools have  been investigated for immigration fraud and mismanagement, though no charges have emerged. Figures close to Mr. Gulen have been accused of playing key roles in the July 2016 coup attempt that took the lives of 251 Turks. Though Mr. Gulen condemned the coup and denied any involvement, former followers of his say that his organization is tightly centralized. U.S. experts on Turkey  such as James Jeffrey, a former ambassador to Ankara  say that Mr. Gulen's followers have pursued power in Turkey by infiltrating government bodies. Many Turks doubt Mr. Gulen's supporters could participate in a coup without his blessing. Before taking up his current position as the State Department's point man on Syria, Mr. Jeffrey stated that it is "embarrassing" that Mr. Gulen "is sitting here in the United States." How, many Turks ask, can the U.S. harbor such a despicable figure?

The third misdeed is the most consequential: the Obama administration's decision in 2016 to arm and train YPG members and directly embed American special forces with them. Rather than work with Turkey, the U.S. chose to support the Syrian wing of the PKK, which the Turkish public holds responsible for decades of warfare and tens of thousands of deaths. The PKK represents a grave threat to the Turkish Republic, and Turks across the political spectrum loathe it. To dismiss Ankara's objections to America's arming of the YPG as mere antiKurdish bigotry is ignorant, akin to labeling the fight against al Qaeda as Islamophobia.

The purchase of the S400s and the pressure Mr. Erdogan is placing on U.S. forces in northern Syria provide a way to demonstrate to the broader Turkish public his willingness to defy Washington for its shabby treatment of Turkey and to restore the balance of power between Turkey and the PKK, which American policy inadvertently overturned. For the U.S. to retaliate against Turkey and alienate it permanently would be folly. To do so now  when Mr. Erdogan's support is waning and democracy in Turkey is showing its vibrant face  would hand Mr. Putin a gift he couldn't have dreamed of.


18.

Trump's Jacksonian Syria Withdrawal

Under investigation for impeachment he may be, but President Trump can still shake the  with his tweets. Explaining his decision to pull U.S. troops away from the TurkishSyrian border at the cost of the Kurdishled Syrian Democratic Forces, and open the way for Turkish forces to create what Ankara calls a "safety zone," President Trump tweeted early Monday that "it is time for us to get out of these ridiculous Endless Wars, many of them tribal, and bring our soldiers home."

Hitting the capslock button, Mr. Trump went on to restate    of his bedrock beliefs, and a cornerstone of Jacksonian foreignpolicy thinking: "WE ONLY FIGHT WHERE IT IS TO OUR BENEFIT, AND ONLY FIGHT TO WIN." As for concerns that a U.S. withdrawal would allow Islamic State to reform, Mr. Trump was dismissive. "We are 7000 miles away and crush ISIS again if they come anywhere near us!"

Criticism of Mr. Trump's withdrawal decision has been intense, with prominent supporters like Sen. Lindsey Graham and former officials like Nikki Haley joining longtime opponents of the White House. Much of that criticism is justified, and the erratic nature of Trumpera policy making, as well as the oftenunpredictable policy mix that results, are undercutting American prestige and influence in much of the world. But not all of the problems dogging the Trump administration Middle East policy are caused by Mr. Trump's sometimes idiosyncratic views or policymaking style. As other news stories from the Middle East week make clear, the American position in the region is an odd mix of dominance and impotence that makes good policy making hard  and that makes the task of building domestic support for smart policy even harder.

The first development is a success story that underlines how dominant the U.S. has become: Fearing U.S. sanctions, China National Petroleum Corp. has abandoned plans for a multibilliondollar investment in Iran's South Pars gas field. This is part of a broader Chinese retreat from Iran in the face of American pressure; the Middle Kingdom isn't yet ready to challenge the U.S. in the Middle East.

The second development  the violent protests shaking Iraq  tells us something equally important. The U.S. may be the paramount power in the region, but nobody has a solution to the developmental and political crisis that continues to destabilize too many countries across the Middle East.

In Iraq there is no political party or social movement with the vision, discipline and competence to create the kind of country the protesters say they want. Iraq's politicians can't deliver the goods. Nor can its civil society, military or religious leadership. More, the U.S., the European Union and the international financial institutions engaged in Iraq don't know how to bridge the gap between the aspirations of the Iraqi    and the shambles of the nation's political life. The "reforms" a desperate Iraqi government is proposing in hope of quieting the unrest mostly make things worse. Parliament Speaker Mohammed alHalbousi has promised, for example, to place every Iraqi with a master's degree or above on the Education Ministry's payroll. Such measures would degrade the country's finances, tighten the grip on power of corrupt political parties and block the kinds of change that might someday put Iraq on the road to success.

Iraq isn't the only country in the region that is trapped in a cycle of dysfunctional governance and blocked development. The forces that produced the Arab Spring  and those that frustrated it  remain at work in the region. Until and unless a path opens for serious economic development, the Middle East continue to produce despotism, revolution, large streams of migrants, and fanatical religious armies and cults.

Mr. Trump isn't the first U.S. president to try to hold America back from a Middle East conflict. President Obama made a similar, and similarly hasty, decision in 2013 when he chose not to respond to Syria's violation of his chemical weapons "red line" with a military strike. Many of the same    criticizing Mr. Trump today criticized Mr. Obama then, and the subsequent course of the Syrian war underlined both the humanitarian and the strategic case against Mr. Obama's decision. Mr. Trump's Syria decision may  prove to be a mistake, but it should give the establishment pause that presidents as different as Messrs. Obama and Trump reached similar conclusions about the political risks in the Middle East.

The U.S. may be the most powerful actor in the region, but it can't resolve the economic and social conflicts that destabilize the Middle East. As long as this is the case, those who want presidents to commit to longterm military engagements, however limited and however advantageous, must expect a skeptical hearing in the Oval Office.



19 With Friends Like the U.S. The Kurds helped to defeat ISIS. Trump leaves them to Erdogan.

President Trump's defeat of Islamic State as a territorial power was a major foreignpolicy success, yet he may now undo it with a retreat from Syria that  signal to U.S. allies that the White House can't be trusted.

That's the risk of Mr. Trump's abrupt decision late Sunday to abandon northern Syria to Turkey. Washington and Ankara had been negotiating to create a buffer zone to avoid a conflict there, but on Sunday the White House announced that American forces cede the area to Turkish troops. Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan is now free to wage war on Syria's Kurds, who were America's most important allies against ISIS.

Mr. Erdogan says the U.S.armed Kurdish fighters in Syria, known as the YPG, have ties to the Kurdistan Workers' Party, a domestic Kurdish insurgency within Turkey. On that exaggerated claim he justifies an exercise that could amount to ethnic cleansing. Mr. Erdogan month proposed a "safe zone" extending some 20 miles into Syria from the Turkish border, where he would resettle millions of Syrian refugees. This could require the forcible resettlement, or worse, of Kurds already living in the area.

Mr. Erdogan seems to have believed that the U.S. would help in this exercise. But after a phone call with the Turkish strongman, Mr. Trump made clear that Turkey is on its own. That  means so are the Kurds, and the U.S. withdrew its troops from border posts. A Kurdish spokesman tweeted, "We are not expecting the US to protect NE #Syria. But    here are owed an explanation."

This looks like a betrayal of the YPG, which lost 11,000 soldiers fighting against ISIS. America armed the Kurds in that fight, and they trusted the U.S. when they were asked to dismantle defensive positions near the Turkish border as part of the bufferzone negotiations with Ankara. The Kurds are less likely to aid an insurgency in Turkey if they're allowed to govern themselves in a safe area in Syria policed by the U.S. and Turkey.

Mr. Trump compounded the injury with insult when he tweeted Monday morning that the "Kurds fought with us, but were paid massive amounts of money and equipment to do so." For Mr. Trump, foreign policy is always a transaction, never a matter of principle.

The Kurds  have taken on the role of jailer of resort for the thousands of captured ISIS fighters no    else wants to house. It's not clear who, if anyone, assume that responsibility now that the U.S. is withdrawing.

The White House says Mr. Erdogan is now responsible for all ISIS fighters in the region, but he can't be trusted given his record of using refugees as bargaining chips with Western Europe. Released European ISIS recruits could disperse to form cells in the region or find their way back to Europe. There's  the practical question of how to transfer control of prison camps from the Kurds to Turkish troops waging war against them.

Under heavy criticism from even friends in Congress, Mr. Trump tweeted later on Monday that he'd "totally destroy and obliterate the Economy of Turkey" if Mr. Erdogan does anything "off limits." Administration sources say this is a warning to Mr. Erdogan not to massacre the Kurds or free ISIS prisoners, at the risk of U.S. economic sanctions.

But Mr. Erdogan  knows Mr. Trump badly wants out of the Middle East and might call the American's bluff. "It is time for us to get out of these ridiculous Endless Wars," Mr. Trump tweeted Monday. Mr. Erdogan  could choose to slowly strangle the Kurds, figuring that won't be enough to trigger Mr. Trump's sanctions on a NATO ally. Washington can at least deny Turkish jet fighters airspace over Kurdish areas, which would raise the costs for Mr. Erdogan of a fullscale invasion.

Like Barack Obama, Mr. Trump thinks he can wash his hands of Syria at little cost. But the resulting vacuum allowed ISIS to grow, Russia to intervene, and now Iran to establish its proxies on Israel's border. Within three years U.S. troops were back on the ground.

Mr. Obama left Mr. Trump with a bad Syria hand, but the President risks making the same mistake. Economic sanctions won't deflect White House blame for a Kurdish bloodbath. And if ISIS revives, the U.S. have to go back in—this time without Kurdish allies on the ground. Mr. Trump may want to leave the Middle East, but chaos there follow him home.




20. Trump and the 'Globalists'

President Trump at the United Nations this week elaborated on his longrunning antagonism toward globalism. "The future does not belong to globalists," Mr. Trump . "The future belongs to patriots. The future belongs to sovereign and independent nations who protect their citizens, respect their neighbors, and honor the differences that make each country special and unique."

There is merit to these concerns, but I think the critics of "globalism," including most prominently Mr. Trump, underestimate the nearterm danger of the serious difficulties appearing today in national democratic governance.

Democracies maintain their legitimacy in the public's eye only if they demonstrate a reasonable capacity to address society's inevitably complex challenges. Especially now, with Xi Jinping in China and Vladimir Putin in Russia and even Iran's Hassan Rouhani actively offering as an alternative model the administrative state on authoritarian steroids.

Democracies always struggle to perform, but it's clear that many of the 21st century's independent nations are having a remarkably difficult time executing their sovereign responsibilities.

Starting here. Congress, the more than 230yearold legislative branch of the U.S. government, is deadlocked, with even the passage of a national budget becoming impossible.

Defuse the U.S. entitlement bombs? Forget it. Infrastructure? Too complicated. Republican House members, in the minority, are quitting, and who can blame them for abandoning a lowsatisfaction job?

The antiTrump obsession has created a degree of political bitterness and polarization that is killing the possibility of normal governance. Instead of passing the trade deal with Mexico and Canada, the House wallow in impeachment mud the next 13 months.

Elsewhere, the month of October is bookended with major crises in governance. Oct. 31 is the nominal dropdead date for the United Kingdom's scheduled departure from the European Union, unless Parliament kicks the beatup Brexit can down another back alley. The U.K. has arrived at the spectacle of opposition parties resisting a national election.

But the more significant October event is less than a week off  Tuesday's 70th anniversary of the founding of the   's Republic of China. President Xi Jinping, unelected successor to the regime's founder, Mao Zedong, no doubt has celebrations of communism planned for all 1.3 billion of his country's   . The    of Hong Kong won't be attending.

They be in the streets, as they have been every weekend for months, putting their lives at risk to get what we're supposed to believe many Americans now say isn't our problem  democracy building.

In fact, Hong Kong is ground zero in the ideological struggle between government by independent   s and the China model of dowhatyou'retold governance.

The Chinese model survives with mass surveillance and unappealable criminal prosecutions, which would have been extended to Hong Kong by the extradition bill that caused the demonstrations.

Hong Kong's protests prove that no free    would voluntarily opt in to the Chinese Communist Party system. But China's control model could still prevail. The Chinese and Mr. Putin have the patience to wait until their sovereign nationstate rivals exhaust the assent of their frustrated populations.

When massive flows of refugee migrants from Syria and North Africa entered Europe in 2015, the member nations of the EU proved incapable of fashioning an effective response. Publics lost faith in their governments' political competence, which produced significant support for fringe parties in the EU's elections May.

The U.S. Congress has lost its capacity to rationalize the immigration laws, so the mess festers on the border. In Europe and in the U.S., the vast revenue needs of the welfareentitlement state are suppressing policy options to improve economic opportunity for younger generations or pay for future national security.

Mr. Trump's concerns about undemocratic governance by remote international bureaucracies are plausible, but the greater threat is more imminent. If the expansion of an increasingly dysfunctional administrative state inside the world's sovereign democracies is inexorable and unreformable, the future belong to China's brand of administrative authoritarianism. The default option for disgusted and "sovereign"    could be a desire simply to get things done by fiat.

Arguably, Elizabeth Warren and her multiple plans  heavily dependent on criminal prosecutions and intense oversight  is flirting with a milder version of this future. With Congress in polarized decline, both the Obama and Trump presidencies have governed heavily by executive order, which could be described as a slow slide toward soft authoritarianism. Some on the left and right would probably be fine with that.

"If you want freedom," Mr. Trump told the U.N., "take pride in your country. If you want democracy, hold on to your sovereignty." Holding on to a nation's identity is important. But national pride won't matter much if democratic governance degrades into ineffectuality.



21. 
Syrians Rely on Old Habits to Stay Free in Turkey  WSJ


ISTANBUL  Every evening when Muhammad Hamdoun gets off work, he scans the street as he walks the few blocks to the bus station, trying to blend in with the Turkish    around him and avoid police who might identify him as a Syrian refugee.

To evade arrest for having a residency card registered in another province, Mr. Hamdoun has adopted precautions he first honed as an antigovernment activist in Syria. Like many of his compatriots in Istanbul, he takes detours to avoid checkpoints, dresses in a way that doesn't stand out and is cautious when speaking on the phone or even at home, wary of who might be listening.

"We're using the same tactics we learned in Syria,"  the 22yearold photographer, who still bears scars on his arm and stomach from a mortar strike. "It seems our fate to always be hunted."

For many Syrian refugees without proper documents in Turkey's economic hub, life has become a catandmouse trial to avoid a dire fate: deportation to Syria. That prospect has become increasingly real, as Turkey's government pulls away the welcome mat it once extended to those fleeing the war next door.

Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, after experiencing a drop in popularity attributed to the refugee issue, has vowed "to accelerate the return of Syrian refugees to their homes." week, he  Turkey would send back a million of the nearly four million Syrians in the country.

Turkish officials month began stepping up identity checks in Istanbul on Syrian refugees, who are required to carry temporary residency cards registered in specific provinces. Those found to be not registered here or to be among the estimated halfmillion Syrians lacking Turkish papers entirely have either been sent to another province or deported back to Syria.

More than 6,200 Syrians were deported back to northern Syria during month's crackdown, according to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights. Among those deported were    with valid residency cards who had been found guilty of code violations or crimes, according to the U.K.based monitoring group.

What's happening in Turkey is part of the broader political crosscurrents Syrian refugees now face in the Middle East and Europe. Some countries have grown tired of hosting displaced communities and in some cases have turned against them. Lebanon has deported more than 2,700 Syrians since May, according to Human Rights Watch, and many more have gone back because the country feels increasingly hostile to them.

But for most Syrians who fled their country's conflict, returning is a chilling prospect. They fear being arrested by the government of President Bashar alAssad, whose forces have recaptured large parts of the country with Russian and Iranian help. Even when Syrians are returned to areas controlled by the country's weakened opposition, they face insecurity and continuing attacks by government forces, such as the military campaign against rebels in the northwestern Idlib province.

Last year, Ward Mardini, her husband and their young children were among thousands evacuated from an eastern suburb of Syria's capital, Damascus, after surviving years of siege, bombardment and a chemicalweapons attack.

When the family arrived in Turkey a few months later, having been smuggled across the mountainous border, Ms. Mardini adopted the Turkish style of head scarf  wrapped high in the back and jutting out along the sides of the face. When Turkish officials began their crackdown, the practice allowed her to move around the city largely unnoticed.

But it didn't help her when police knocked on the door of her family's Istanbul apartment late    night and demanded to see their documents. Ms. Mardini feared her 4yearold son would get scared upon seeing them, remembering being detained on the Turkish border year when they crossed illegally.

The 26yearold and her husband have residency cards registered in the city of Bursa, where there aren't many jobs available. But just days before the police showed up, Ms. Mardini and her family had been granted a travel permit allowing them to travel freely inside Turkey. The permit expires in October. Ms. Mardini has applied for asylum in France, hoping they get accepted before the Turkish police come knocking again.

"I can't return to a war zone," she , glancing at those around her at a street cafe to see if they were listening to her conversation. "If it was just me I could bear it but I have kids and I have to secure for them a better life than I have lived."

For many, movement within this city has become measured and calculated.

Early during the uprising against the Syrian regime, activists created WhatsApp message groups to send out warnings about army checkpoints or security raids. Now they send similar alerts about patrols in Istanbul and neighborhoods to avoid,  Abdulqader Laheeb, a Syrian journalist in Istanbul.

On a recent evening at a bus station, Mr. Hamdoun's eyes darted back and forth through the crowds until he spotted a police officer in a bulletproof vest. The officer was walking away from him but even so, Mr. Hamdoun kept his eyes on him, fearing he would suddenly turn around.

Another Syrian man walked hurriedly behind Mr, Hamdoun, speaking into his phone headset to another person: "If the security finds you, it could be a big fine."

Mr. Hamdoun smiled. "It's the talk on everyone's lips," he .

When he leaves his home  just to buy bread from a store down the street  Mr. Hamdoun brings his residency documents with him.

On his days off he mostly stays home, but if he does venture out he wears shorts above the knee  an item of clothing not many Syrians, who tend to be more conservative than Turks, would wear.

When Fares, a waiter at a restaurant, first spotted a police officer on the tram during his commute, he realized it was no longer safe. So he began taking taxis to work and back. That mode of transportation became expensive  and risky too. Taxi drivers began occasionally questioning Syrian passengers about where they were registered.

He has lived in Turkey for four years, and his residency card is registered in the southern province of Hatay, where he says there are no jobs.

On Aug. 19 he moved out of his apartment and into a spare room in the basement of the restaurant where he works. The room, shared with another Syrian refugee who  decided commuting was too dangerous, is across the hall from the noisy kitchen. They sleep there on sofa cushions taken from the restaurant and hang their clothes to dry on a rack.

"It was very hard at first, I couldn't sleep," he . "But I was afraid they would deport me to Idlib; that's a much bigger problem."


