 
1.
Migrants Kept In Mexico Face Gang Threats And Violence  WSJ


NUEVO LAREDO, Mexico  Every morning, Lorenzo Ortíz, a Baptist pastor who lives in Texas, drives a 12seat passenger van packed with food and blankets across the border to pick up migrants who have been dropped off in Mexico and ferry them to shelters.

His mission is to keep the migrants safe from organized crime groups that prowl the streets of this violent Mexican border town. Since the Trump administration began implementing its Migrant Protection Protocols program at the start of 2019  widely known as Remain in Mexico  some 54,000 migrants, mostly from Central America, have been sent back to northern Mexico to wait while their asylum claims are processed. Mexico's government is helping implement it.

But in cities like Nuevo Laredo, migrants are sitting ducks. Over the years, thousands have reported being threatened, extorted or kidnapped by criminal groups, who prey upon asylum seekers at bus stations and other public spaces.

"Over the  year, it's gotten really bad," Mr. Ortíz .

A typical scheme involves kidnapping migrants and holding them until a relative in the U.S. wires my, typically thousands of dollars, in ransom my. Gangs have attacked shelters and even some Mexican clergy members who help migrants.

There have been 636 reported cases of kidnapping, rape, torture and other violent crimes against migrants returned to Mexico under Remain in Mexico, according to Human Rights First, which interviews victims in border cities and advocates for migrants' due process rights. At least 138 of these incidents involved kidnappings of children.

Many more cases of extortion and violence go unreported for fear of retribution. As more migrants are returned to dangerous areas such as Nuevo Laredo under Remain in Mexico, the situation is expected to worsen, the nonprofit Human Rights First  in a recent report.

The Mexican government has played down the violence. Foreign Minister Marcelo Ebrard recently acknowledged kidnapping incidents, but  that "it's not a massive number." Only 20 such cases have been investigated by the government, he added.

The Trump administration has credited the program with deterring migrants from attempting to cross into the U.S. Monthly apprehensions of migrants at the U.S. Southern border have plunged from more than 144,000 in May to 33,500 in November. The Remain in Mexico program was expanded in June.

On a recent visit to the border, acting Department of Homeland Security Secretary Chad Wolf  the program has been a "gamechanger" for U.S. Customs and Border Protection officers because it has freed them from having to perform humanitarian duties.

But Mr. Ortíz's daily commute back and forth over the border highlights what migrants' advocates say is a key element of the program  it isolates migrants not only from the legal counsel they need to argue their asylum claims, but from resources like food, shelter and medical care that are abundant on the U.S. side, but nearnxistent in Mexico.

"You have all this infrastructure to help feed and clothe and house  set up on this side, in Laredo and Del Rio and Eagle Pass, and then suddenly the administration changes the policy, and you have to send it all to Mexico, because now every is on the other side,"  Denise LaRock, a Catholic Sister who helps distribute donations to asylum seekers through the nonprofit Interfaith Welcome Coalition. Mexico has been unable to provide enough safe shelter and other resources to migrants.

In Matamoros, another large recipient of asylum seekers under the program across the border from Brownsville, Texas, a tent city of more than 3,000  has sprung up. Migrants there have complained of overcrowding, unsanitary conditions and insufficient medical treatment. In November, a migrant from El Salvador was murdered in Tijuana, opposite San Diego, while waiting with his wife and  children for an asylum hearing under the Remain in Mexico program.

On a recent, brisklycold Wednesday, Mr. Ortíz, dressed in a ski vest and a baseball cap with the logo of the U.S. Chaplain International Association, picked up six migrants, including  children aged 8 and 14, at the immigration office in Nuevo Laredo. All were from El Salvador, Guatemala or Honduras, and were returning from legal appointments in the U.S. Hearings take place in makeshift courts set up in tents in Laredo, just across the bridge over the Rio Grande that separates the  cities.

At the front door of the office, six young men sat idly around a motorcycle, hats pulled low over their heads, watching the scene unfold, periodically walking up to the church van and peering in. Mr. Ortíz  these men were "hawks" or lookouts for criminal gangs.

"They know who I am, I know who they are," he . "You have to know every to do this work. The cartels respect the church. I've driven all around Nuevo Laredo in this van, full of migrants, and they never mess with me."

At  point  of the lookouts asked the pastor for some food. He gave them  boxes of sandwich cookies. They clapped him on the shoulder, eating the treats as they walked back to their observation post.

Mr. Ortíz, a native of central Mexico, came to the U.S. at age 15 and eventually built a small contracting business in Texas. He became an ordained Baptist minister about a decade ago and three years ago began ministering to migrants full time. This year, he converted several rooms of his home in Laredo, Texas, into a dormitory for migrants and built men's and women's showers in his backyard.

After picking up the migrants, Mr. Ortíz ferried the group to an unmarked safe house with a chainlocked door on a busy street in the center of Nuevo Laredo, Mexico.

Inside, about 90 migrant families crowded into rows of cots set up in a handful of bedrooms and a concrete back patio. Among the Central Americans are migrants from Peru, Congo, Haiti, Angola and Venezuela.

Reports of migrant kidnappings have increased since the Remain in Mexico program began, Mr. Ortíz . In September, armed men stormed the safe house   of  that the pastor brings migrants to  and detained the shelter's staff for about an hour.

Since then, Mr. Ortíz , the volunteer staff has stopped allowing migrants to leave the house unaccompanied, even to buy milk for young children at a nearby store.

Rosa Asencio, a schoolteacher fleeing criminal gangs in El Salvador and traveling with her  children ages 4 and 7, was returned to Nuevo Laredo under Remain in Mexico. She says she hasn't been outside the shelter for nearly three weeks. "They can kidnap you anywhere," she .

María Mazariegos, an Honduran housekeeper,  she was kidnapped along with her 12yearold daughter Alexandra from the bus station in Nuevo Laredo in September.

Gang members held her in a windowless cinderblock room that bore signs of torture for three days with  meal of tortillas and beans. She was released after her family members in the U.S. convinced her captors that they didn't have the my to pay a ransom.

Then,  weeks later, while she was returning from a court appointment in the U.S., a shelter staff member confirmed, another group tried to kidnap her. An escort from the shelter was able to talk the kidnappers out of it.

She has court hearing under Remain in Mexico rules on Jan. 22, where a judge is expected to decide on her asylum case. If she is rejected, she plans to move to the Mexican city of Saltillo, where she has heard there are more jobs and less violence.

"Just about anywhere is better than here," Ms. Mazariegos added.





2.The Weekend Interview with Ivan Simonovis: A Former Top Cop Makes a Daring Escape

Ivan Simonovis is celebrating Christmas as a free man for the first time in 16 years.

A former police commissir of Caracas, Venezuela, he became a political prisr in 2004 and spent much of the next decade in a tiny underground cell. In 2014 he was transferred to house arrest, from which he made a daring escape this May. Accomplices spirited him to Florida, where he now lives with his wife, Bony. With her by his side, he tells me in Spanish that he's "trying to adapt to a life of liberty."

Mr. Simonovis, 59, and his family   grown daughters and a brotherinlaw  are enjoying a traditional Venezuelan Christmas feast: hallacas, a dish that resembles tamales, plus bread baked with ham and olives, chickenandpotato salad and papaya pudding. "For sure, this is a meal that very few  in Venezuela  eat this Christmas," he says. Even if the ingredients were available, hyperinflation would make them much too expensive for ordinary citizens.

Mr. Simonovis's story is, in many respects, the story of Venezuela under the Bolivarian socialist regime that has ravaged the country since Hugo Chavez came to power in 1999. The deprivation of freedom has accompanied the destruction of the economy, and the arrest and imprisonment of Mr. Simonovis  initially without warrant or charge  proves that no  is immune to the regime's political vendettas.

Ivan Simonovis became a police detective at 21 and eventually came to be a boldface name in Venezuela. He created the country's first SWAT team, the Brigada de Accis Especiales. In 1998 BAE acquired an international profile when  of its snipers shot dead a gunman who'd taken a woman hostage in the town of Cua, 40 miles from Caracas. "If you type 'BAE Caso Cua' into YouTube," he tells me, "you'll see what happened." The episode was caught on TV cameras. The viewing isn't for the squeamish, but it leaves no doubt BAE knew how to do its job.

He was promoted to head the Office of Operations for the national police. Chavez was elected president in 1999, and a year later the mayor of Caracas asked Mr. Simonovis to run his city's police force. There he established "a professional alliance" with the New York City Police Department, importing many of its methods to the most dangerous parts of Caracas. "We tropicalized the NYPD," he says with a smile. He enlisted the help of Bill Bratton, who had been and would again be New York's police commissir, as a private consultant. This association would come back to haunt Mr. Simonovis, as the regime later used it to support its contention that he was in the pay of the Central Intelligence Agency.

"This was a turbulent time in Venezuela," Mr. Simonovis says. "Politics was really starting to heat up." Chavez was consolidating his control, but the press was still resilient, and civil society hadn't lost its appetite or capacity to fight. On April 11, 2002, provoked by Chavez's sacking of strikers at Petroleos de Venezuela SA, the national oil monopoly, tens of thousands of demonstrators marched toward the presidential palace demanding his resignation. "His treatment of PdVSA caused consternation," Mr. Simonovis says. "The marchers were angry. There were many there from the middle class, from the nicer parts of the city."

The demonstration sealed Mr. Simonovis's fate. "There was no way to stop the march," he says. As protesters approached the palace, Chavez loyalists confronted them at the Llaguno Overpass. What happened there is fiercely disputed. Mr. Simonovis says that 19 marchers were shot dead and hundreds wounded. "I should add that some proChavez  died, too." As he tells it, the Caracas police  his officers  intervened to halt the mayhem, and that mostly involved protecting the unarmed marchers from proChavez gunfire. Inevitably, the regime accused Mr. Simonovis of siding with the opposition. "That's when the accusations started  that I was CIA," he says. "They wanted a scapegoat for Llaguno."

 months later Mr. Simonovis resigned, fed up with the regime's hostility. He started a security consultancy with clients in Venezuela and the U.S. He worked unmolested until Nov. 22, 2004, when he was arrested at Maracaibo airport on his way to a business trip. "They told me they had to detain me because I was a flight risk," he says. "But this was my fifth trip to the U.S. that year. I always came back to Venezuela after my business was over."

The most renowned cop in Venezuela was flown to Caracas in handcuffs and driven to the headquarters of the Bolivarian National Intelligence Service, known by the Spanish acronym Sebin. "They took me to a cell, 6 feet by 6 feet, subterranean, with no natural light or source of air, concrete floors, no toilet," he says. "I didn't know at the time, but I was to be there for eight years. Until 2012."

He describes his life in jail in simple language, seemingly without rancor. "My trial began a year later, in a court in Maracay, 60 miles from Caracas," he recounts. "For many years, until my trial was over and my sentence was passed, the only time I saw natural light was when they hustled me to Maracay and back."

His trial ed three years and four months. "I must have made about 80 trips, woken at the crack of dawn, bundled into a car with tinted windows, where I sat in the middle at the back between  policemen." At Maracay he was taken straight to a cell, then brought out to the kangaroo courtroom, then bundled back into a car and returned to Sebin in Caracas. "I didn't really see much sunlight, but I was aware of it for a few hours each time."

His cell was "full of mosquitoes, with a clunky fan that just churned up the hot air in there." The greasy, dirty food antagonized his stomach. His eyesight deteriorated, as did his bs. Osteoporosis set in. He was never allowed to see a doctor. "A male nurse would come down to see me and the other political prisrs, some bankers and others, from time to time. His verdict always was that I was a 'healthy adult.'"

His wife visited him when the authorities permitted, sometimes with the children. Then she spoke to the press, indignantly describing his treatment. "Whenever she did that," he says, "they punished me. They would curtail her visits. Sometimes, they would confiscate my toothbrush and other items of personal hygiene for weeks, just to degrade me." After  of Bony's fulminations to the press, he wasn't allowed out of his cell for a month, except for  daily visit to the toilet.

When he first saw his wife and younger daughter, Ivana, after that ordeal, it was in the usual filthy visiting room, "a place crawling with rats. My daughter, then 8, thought  of the rats was a rabbit, they were so big." Mr. Simonovis was unshaven and cut a figure that frightened the girl. She shrank back, and he reassured her that he was emulating Tom Hanks in the 2000 movie "Cast Away." That film, he says, "really helped me. Especially the Hanks character's idea to set a daily routine to keep sane."

Mr. Simonovis set up his own routine: Exercises  situps, jumps, pushups. Contemplation. Reading. Writing, on paper smuggled in to him by Bony with the complicity of friendly guards. He painstakingly wrote a memoir, "El Prisiro Rojo" ("The Red Prisr"). "My jailers weren't aware I was writing a book," he says, adding with a chuckle that they found out only once it was published, in 2013, while he was still in captivity. (He's working on a second volume.)

In 2008 the court in Maracay convicted Mr. Simonovis of conspiracy to commit murder and imposed a 30year prison sentence. "The future seemed as bleak," he says, "as the verdict was absurd." Chavez had consolidated his suffocating control. In the tiniest concession, Mr. Simonovis was permitted to go into the sun  for 10 minutes each morning. "Sometimes, it was just five minutes. The men guarding me were occasionally men I knew. It was awkward. Mostly, they were young recruits who didn't know how to deal with a man of my rank."

His condition eased in 2012. He was shifted to a military prison in Ramo Verde, 20 miles southwest of Caracas. There his cell had some natural light and air, and he had occasional visits by a doctor. "They treated me with more dignity here," he says, because his jailers were no longer from the intelligence service.

In 2014, thanks to Bony's tireless efforts, he was moved to house arrest  heaven by comparison. His wife stayed with him in their story, detached Caracas home. "I was permitted visits by close family, but no  else," he says. He had to wear an electronic ankle bracelet at all times, and be available for three random checks a day, when he was photographed as proof of his presence. Often that meant rousting him from bed at 3 a.m.

Yet the security had its vulnerabilities. A police post outside the front gate was "manned by 14 or 15 cops who were bored out of their minds," Mr. Simonovis says. He "set them up with a nice table, an awning to keep out the sun, and a TV connection." They often wandered off "to grab a bite, or to meet sweethearts." Behind the house was a cliff  a sheer, 60foot drop to a road below. There was no police presence there. Who could possibly exit that way?

Mr. Simonovis could. Before daybreak on May 6, 2019, he rappelled from a balcony to the road below. He used gear that had been smuggled into the house over months. A waiting car whisked him to a safe house. His family, by this point living in Germany, were unaware of his escape. For a month, he sneaked from  hideout to another before being driven by friends to a fishing village on the Caribbean coast, opposite the Venezuelan island of Margarita. "We passed several roadblocks from Caracas to the coast, but we weren't stopped." Venezuela's culture of corruption helped: The police were interested only in stopping commercial trucks.

At the village, Mr. Simonovis got into "a creaky motorboat" with a fisherman who'd agreed to ferry him to a "nearby Caribbean island" outside Venezuela. He won't name the island for fear of endangering those who helped him, but he does say they swerved west. "We had bad luck on the way," he says. "The launch developed engine trouble, and a trip that should've taken six hours took 12 instead." When they finally sputtered into their destination, he was met on a desolate coast by accomplices, who drove him to an airfield.

From there a small plane carried him to Fort Lauderdale, Fla., where U.S. immigration agents awaited him. "'Welcome to America,' they , as they took my decadesold passport, which was expired  a museum piece, really. It was the only documentation I had."

Mr. Simonovis is now working with U.S. and interAmerican agencies to build forensic cases against members of the Venezuelan regime who have trafficked drugs and laundered stolen my. "I want nothing more than the freedom of my country," he says, "and to help bring an end to [Nicolas] Maduro," who succeeded Chavez after the latter's death in 2013.

After years of captivity, freedom takes some getting used to. "Sometimes," Mr. Simonovis says, "when I'm driving on the highway, I have to pull over and ask myself, 'Is all this open space for real?'" Unlikely triggers stir his emotions  not all of them as warm as the family's Christmas. "In jail, you can't imagine the value that a single cube of ice has," Mr. Simonovis says. He didn't have any ice for years. "Now, every time I hold a cold glass, I think of jail."



3. Venezuela Leader Weathers Threats to His Rule  WSJ



Once seen as ripe for ouster, Maduro appears in control as street protests fizzle

By Ryan Dube 
This article is being republished as part of our daily reproduction of WSJ.com articles that appeared in the U.S. print edition of The Wall Street Journal (December 9, 2019).

In January, the Trump administration predicted Venezuelan President Nicolás Maduro's imminent downfall as he wrestled with an energized opposition, debilitating U.S. oil sanctions and international isolation after dozens of nations proclaimed his leadership illegitimate.

Today, Mr. Maduro appears in firm control. The opposition is grappling with a corruption scandal and its efforts to rekindle street protests have fallen flat. Venezuela's crisisracked economy is showing subtle signs of improvement. And governments across Latin America are facing their own political turmoil, distracting from onceburgeoning international efforts to remove the Venezuelan strongman from power.

"Maduro is probably feeling better about himself right now than he has in the  several years,"  Fernando Cutz, a former official of the U.S. National Security Council who worked on policy toward Venezuela. "I am less optimistic right now than I have been in the  three years. I don't see any reason to forecast that 2020  bring positive change for the  of Venezuela."

The rosier outlook for Mr. Maduro underscores the difficulty for the U.S. and its allies in ousting a leader who has control of the armed forces and police and readily uses those forces to repress the opposition. It highlights the excessive optimism of the Trump administration and what critics of the American policy  were unrealistic expectations that pressure tactics would easily force Mr. Maduro and his lieutenants from power.

It wasn't supposed to be like this. On Jan. 23, Juan Guaidó, the head of the oppositioncontrolled National Assembly, declared himself interim president. Within days, the U.S. and dozens of other countries recognized him as Venezuela's rightful president over Mr. Maduro, a leftist autocrat accused of fraudulently winning reelection in 2018.

"Nicolás Maduro is a dictator with no legitimate claim to power, and Nicolás Maduro must go," Vice President Mike Pence  in April.

Instead, as the months passed, Mr. Maduro hunkered down, and Mr. Guaidó lost momentum as opposition efforts to flip the military and unseat the Venezuelan leader failed. By September,  of Mr. Maduro's staunchest adversaries in the U.S. was sidelined with the removal of White House national security adviser John Bolton, who told Latin American leaders in August that Mr. Maduro was "at the end of his rope."

In October, the region was roiled by violent protests in Ecuador, Chile and Bolivia, allowing Mr. Maduro to point to that turmoil to distract from his misrule in Venezuela and the chronic food and medicine shortages it has caused.

Venezuela's economy, which the International Mtary Fund projected would contract by 35% this year, is performing somewhat less dismally than it has been. Crude oil exports rose to 935,000 barrels per day  month, from 637,500 barrels a day in September, according to website TankerTrackers.com, as tankers docked in Venezuela despite U.S. sanctions aimed at crippling its lifeblood industry.

The government has stopped enforcing price and currency controls and eased import restrictions. The economy is getting a boost from 4 million migrants who have fled since 2015 and are now sending back billions of dollars annually for relatives left behind. The government has quietly permitted dollarization to take hold, with many shoppers fortunate enough to have greenbacks spending them freely.

"There's been an upturn,"  Osman Bolívar, a telecommunications businessman in Valencia who saw a 35% increase in sales at his stores the   months. " hundred percent of the products that we sell are sold in dollars."

Mr. Bolívar  the economy remains dire and he doesn't expect major improvements unless there is a political change  a prospect he sees dimming.

"We've adapted in order to survive," he . "What Guaidó has proposed is just a dream."

Elliott Abrams, the top U.S. envoy to Venezuela,  it was "flatly wrong" that the situation was improving for Mr. Maduro or that the opposition was losing momentum. Mr. Abrams pointed to this year's overall decline in oil production, the continuing humanitarian crisis and recent antigovernment protests. He noted that Western Hemisphere countries recently agreed on sanctions against Venezuelan officials to increase pressure on Mr. Maduro.

"If the situation were stabilizing, Russia and China would be lending more my to the regime, knowing it could pay them back," Mr. Abrams told The Wall Street Journal. "Instead they are working hard to get my out now and are committing zero new my, because they know the regime's situation is so precarious."

Within the opposition, however, a corruption scandal is now causing infighting and undermining its claims to being an hst alternative to Mr. Maduro's regime. Earlier this month, Venezuelan news website Armando.info reported that opposition lawmakers, in exchange for alleged kickbacks, lobbied in favor of a businessman under investigation in Colombia for alleged links to the Venezuelan government's corruptionplagued food program.

The nine lawmakers, members of a congressional oversight committee, reportedly wrote letters supporting the businessman to the office of Colombia's attorney general, which is conducting the probe. The website  the man has ties to Alex Saab Morán, a Colombian businessman the U.S. indicted in July over accusations he ran global mylaundering operations that diverted hundreds of millions of dollars of state funds into overseas accounts for the Venezuelan regime.

Mr. Saab's Colombiabased lawyer didn't respond to requests for comment. Mr. Saab has previously denied allegations of corruption.

"All of this really solidifies Maduro,"  David Smilde, a scholar on Venezuela at Tulane University. "We are seeing a crumbling of this opposition unity that started  January."

Lawmakers from Mr. Maduro's Socialist Party and the president's powerful allies mocked the opposition over the alleged influencepeddling.

"No  is clean in this corruption fight in the opposition," Diosdado Cabello, a top Venezuelan official, wrote on Twitter. "Accusations  come and go between them, they're a society of political mercenaries. This is getting good and we  be victorious."

Mr. Guaidó suspended the accused lawmakers from their congressional responsibilities while opening an investigation into the alleged wrongdoing.

"As a society, we have to say 'enough,'" he , speaking of corruption. "As civil servants who have sworn to protect the Venezuelan , we can't allow it."

Luis Vicente León, a leading Venezuelan pollster and political analyst,  the scandal was sure to undermine trust in the now dispirited opposition and further undercut Mr. Guaidó's approval rating, which had already fallen about 20 points since the start of the year to 40% before the scandal emerged in October.

"There is no way that this won't have a negative political impact," he . "The question is how deep  the negative impact be. You can't separate the image of the opposition from its main leader."


4.  News:  Watch


Nearly  in four, or 24.6%, of Europeans holds strongly antiSemitic views, according to a poll by a Jewish antihate organization.

Among European Muslims in Western Europe, the incidence of such views was, on average, higher than the general population, according to the AntiDefamation League's study.

A significant proportion of those surveyed agreed with statements that Jews were more loyal to Israel than to their own country, Jews talked too much about the Holocaust, and Jews had too much power in business and finance.

The study comprises 11 questions used to identify antiSemitic attitudes. It surveyed more than 9,000  in 18 countries in Europe, Canada, South Africa, Argentina and Brazil between April and June this year.

The results from Western Europe showed antiSemitic beliefs have remained the same or decreased compared with recent ADL surveys. But the study's creators noted that was a result of  saying they didn't know whether antiSemitic tropes were true, rather than saying they were false.

In Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands and Spain, more than 40% of respondents stated that Jews were more loyal to Israel than to their own countries.

In Poland, antiSemitic attitudes were present in 48% of the population, up from 37% in 2015, when the  survey was conducted. Hungary's overall index score increased from 40% in 2015 to 42%.


Chief Signals Current

Policy Is Working

Bank of Canada Governor Stephen Poloz  he thinks the central bank has mtary conditions about right, adding to expectations the bank  leave its key interest rate on hold in December.

Mr. Poloz told an audience in Toronto that global trade conflicts have hurt Canada's exports and investment but the economy is still in a good place overall. Policy makers are watching to see whether traderelated weakness spills over into other parts of the economy, he , including the housing and service sectors.

Several economists  the governor's comments reinforced their view that the central bank  stand pat at its next policy announcement on Dec. 4.

Kim Mackrael



VENEZUELA

Students Are Blocked

In March to Base

University students in Venezuela staged a protest calling for an end to President Nicolas Maduro's rule.

A few hundred students on Thursday marched several blocks from the Central University of Venezuela campus in Caracas, but a National Guard blockade cut short their goal of reaching the city's main military base.

Opposition leader Juan Guaido has called for sustained demonstrations to pressure Mr. Maduro from power. The opposition has failed to create momentum and draw large numbers.

Students are calling on the military to abandon Mr. Maduro and join their fight to end the nation's economic and political crisis.

The march Thursday ended peacefully with student leaders handing a petition to military commanders.

Mr. Maduro's ruling socialist party held its own student march.




5.
The deterioration of the City by the Bay has been tragic to watch. From the Tenderloin to MidMarket to the Mission, open use of narcotics is commonplace, homeless encampments dominate public spaces, and human feces dot the sidewalks. The middle class has fled punishing housing costs, and neighborhoods are increasingly plagued with burglaries and property crimes.

 week San Francisco voters , "more, please." Weekend ballot counts clinched the election by a thin margin of farleft public defender Chesa Boudin as district attorney. Mr. Boudin has been described as part of a wave of "progressive prosecutors," like Philadelphia's Larry Krasner, who are winning elections in liberal cities. These prosecutors lecture the public about racism, take an adversarial t toward police, and often oversee a spike in crime, especially in poor and minority neighborhoods.

The press fixated on the 39yearold Mr. Boudin's "remarkable biography," which it certainly is for a prosecutor. His parents were members of the leftwing terrorist group Weather Underground. They were imprisd for felony murder for their role perpetrating the Brinks heist of 1981 in which their accomplices gunned down  police officers and a security guard.

Mr. Boudin says rightly that he shouldn't be judged by his parents' actions. Yet he made their incarceration a centerpiece of his campaign, explaining that it showed him the injustice of the criminaljustice system. He rarely if ever expressed sympathy for the murdered officers, and San Francisco's police force was a major target of his campaign. At his election party  week supporters erupted in profane chants about the Police Officers Association.

After college Mr. Boudin moved to Venezuela to work for Hugo Chavez's dictatorship and in 2009 wrote an article hailing Chavez's successful elimination of term limits. A Marxist can in theory faithfully enforce the laws of California, yet Mr. Boudin says he won't. "Crimes such as public camping, offering or soliciting sex, public urination, blocking a sidewalk, etc should not and  not be prosecuted," he  in an ACLU candidate questionnaire.

Mr. Boudin has blamed San Francisco's homelessness crisis on evictions and vows to crack down on "corporate landlords." Most homeless are mentally ill and the crisis has grown worse despite the city's massive investment in public housing. Harassing property owners  further increase rents and inequality.

Leftwing prosecutors sometimes denounce overlyaggressive prosecutions when they really want to turn their powers against ideologically disfavored groups. In addition to landlords, Mr. Boudin promises to prosecute Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents if they "kidnap" San Franciscans.

Voters can afford to indulge experiments like Mr. Boudin's partly because they benefit from protection by the federal authorities. U.S. Attorney for Northern California David Anderson in August launched a major initiative to "combat endemic drug trafficking" in the Tenderloin. Yet Mr. Boudin's commitment to turn a blind eye to nonviolent crime  test the limits of livability in remaining middleclass neighborhoods.

Californians look like they're intent on empowering a leftist leadership model that is worsening living standards for all but the most privileged Silicon Valley and Hollywood residents. We hope  day they come to their senses. In the meantime we hope that, in the interest of residents' safety, Mr. Boudin can come to a modus vivendi with the police officers reeling from his radical campaign.



6.Turkey May Go the Way of Venezuela

Turkish citizens are wildly optimistic about the invasion of Syria that began Oct. 9. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan's decision finds broad support within Turkey, including from all the major opposition parties except the proKurdish 's Democratic Party. The incursion is understood domestically not only as a measure to protect the country from the Kurdish forces Mr. Erdogan calls "terrorists," but to affirm Turkey's status as a power; Ankara no longer must bow to the wishes of Washington, Berlin or Moscow.

Then there's the pessimistic view, the  I share. The invasion damages Turkey internationally: Western and Arab governments have condemned the military operation, as have the Russian, Iranian, Indian and Chinese governments. Volkswagen paused a planned investment in Turkey, and other companies may follow suit. Congress is weighing economic sanctions. Italy, France and Germany have suspended arms sales. Tensions are heightening between Turks and Kurds in Germany, and  likely rise within Turkey as well.

Though northern Syria's open terrain is favorable to regular forces, Turkey's huge army may not do so well on the battlefield. Mr. Erdogan has purged the officer corps several times in recent years for domestic political reasons. Even if initially routed, the Syrian Kurdish forces could regroup to mount a costly insurgency against the Turkish occupation. Turkey has many regional enemies eager to trip it up. Like many prior wars begun in a flush of jubilation  recall the British youth joyfully enlisting in 1914, confident of returning victorious within weeks  this  may end ingloriously.

Should the military operation go badly, responsibility for the failure  fall squarely on Mr. Erdogan's shoulders. A brilliant politician and Turkey's most consequential leader since Ataturk, Mr. Erdogan has repudiated Ataturk's legacy of socialism, secularism and avoiding foreign military adventures. Instead, for years he oversaw a capitalist economic boom, and he still rules with an Islamist sensibility and a neoOttoman approach to foreign policy. In the nearly 17 years since his party first took Parliament, he has transformed Turkey.

But like other masters of domestic politics  Saddam Hussein comes to mind  Mr. Erdogan wrongly assumes that the cunning and aggression that brought him political success internally  work internationally. This explains his unleashing thugs on the streets of Washington, abducting Turkish citizens accused of coup plotting from multiple countries, attempting to smuggle dualuse materials to Gaza, illegally drilling for natural gas in Cypriot waters, and shooting down a Russian jet fighter, among other bellicose actions.

Mr. Erdogan's foreignpolicy ineptitude has alienated other governments. Europeans seethe when he threatens to send 3.6 million displaced Syrians their way. Israelis despise him for a vitriolic antiZionism that compares them to Nazis. Egypt's president hates Mr. Erdogan's backing of the Muslim Brotherhood. Mr. Erdogan's abject apologies haven't compensated for shooting down the Russian jet. China hasn't forgotten Mr. Erdogan's accusing it of genocide against the Uighurs, despite his silence now.

When the candidate from Mr. Erdogan's AKP party twice lost the Istanbul mayor's race this year, most analysts saw this as a "political earthquake" and a "stunning blow" to Mr. Erdogan, but he remains as dominant and dangerous as ever. A ruthless ideologue, his continued rule could bring to Turkey the political repression, economic collapse, hunger and mass emigration that plague Nicolas Maduro's Venezuela.

I worry about this terrible outcome because Mr. Erdogan has consolidated power over Turkey's institutions: the military, the intelligence services, the police, the judiciary, the banks, the media, the election board, the mosques and the educational system. He has supported the private security company Sadat, which some analysts consider a "shadow" or "private" army. Academics who signed a 2016 petition critical of Mr. Erdogan's policies toward the Kurds have lost their jobs, faced criminal charges and even been jailed. Mr. Erdogan's harebrained theory that high interest rates cause, rather than cure, high inflation has recently d great damage to the economy. The 1,150room palace he had built symbolizes his grandiosity and ambition.

In short, Mr. Erdogan is a dictator with strange ideas, wild ambitions and no restraints. The invasion of Syria has made a domestic and regional tragedy the most likely outcome.

How can the outside  prevent catastrophe? By terminating its disgraceful indulgence of Mr. Erdogan. Donald Trump is only the latest politician to fall for his mysterious charms  George W. Bush, Barack Obama and Angela Merkel, among others, preceded him. Mr. Erdogan deserves punishment, not rewards, for his outrageous behavior. His heading a North Atlantic Treaty Organization member country should raise, not lower, the bar.

The U.S. consensus rejecting the Turkish invasion as unacceptable offers an encouraging basis for action. It suggests that Americans can join with others to restrain the rogue Turkish president and help his country avoid becoming another Venezuela. But unless tough action is taken quickly, starting with American leadership to end the Turkish occupation of northern Syria, it  be too late to stop Turkey from becoming a premier international trouble spot.



7.
Venezuela Baseball League Seeks Way Around U.S. Sanctions on Maduro Regime; Teams cut ties to state sponsors blacklisted by U.S. in effort to get MLB players back in action for winter play

Venezuela's baseball league says it has cut all sponsorship ties to its country's government institutions blacklisted by the U.S. in an attempt to find a way around sanctions that prompted Major League Baseball to ban its players from winter ball in the South American country.

The eight teams that make up the Venezuelan Professional Baseball League, or LVBP, agreed in a private meeting on Sept. 17 to sever all financial relations with Venezuela's central government, according to a league resolution that hasn't been made public and was seen by The Wall Street Journal.

The accord calls on teams to remove, from jerseys and stadium billboards, the logos of what had been among LVBP's biggest sponsors: state energy monopoly Petróleos de Venezuela S.A. and the Venezuelan Economic and Social Development Bank.

Both institutions have been sanctid by the U.S. Treasury Department as part of the U.S.'s ongoing effort to oust [https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/usexpandssanctionsagainstvenezuelaintoanembargo11565053782] authoritarian leader Nicolás Maduro from office. By cutting relations, Venezuelan league officials hope to quell MLB's concerns of running afoul of U.S. government policy. In August American teams prohibited players from participating in Venezuela's Winter League, a popular training ground and income source for major and minorleague players during the U.S. offseason since the early 1950s.

"Venezuela has produced some of the best players in the , and we  do all we can to keep our 73year history alive," a Venezuelan league spokesperson  in a statement Friday. Venezuela's league was supposed to kick off Oct. 17 but has been delayed until Nov. 5. Its leaders were in Washington for meetings this week to seek clarity from the U.S. government and the MLB over how to restore the link between both nations' ball leagues.

Under the league agreement, the LVBP  it found a way to cut 50% of its budget from the previous year. The addition of small private sponsors for teams  try to fill the hole left by the state companies that had made up about 30% of financing for the LVBP  year.

The new measures mean the Venezuelan season starts next month with the number of games each team  play slashed to 42 from 63. The quota of foreign players required by each team was lowered to six from eight. MLB players who drew big crowds in Venezuela  be replaced by pros from independent Venezuelan leagues.

MLB's ban was a devastating blow for baseballcrazed Venezuela. It was the latest hit for a country reeling from economic depression and spreading hunger that has pushed four million refugees to neighboring nations. The LVBP says that nearly 80% of its players play in the U.S., which has more than 1,000 Venezuelan nationals at all levels of play, second only to the Dominican Republic.

The U.S. major leagues had 68 Venezuelans on 28 teams across the league at the start of the current season.

Both MLB and the Venezuelan league have sought clarification from the U.S. Treasury whether reestablishing ties would be a sanctions violation but haven't gotten a response, according to  familiar with the matter.

"We received the resolution yesterday and are evaluating it with our counsel to determine next steps including seeking further advice from OFAC," a MLB spokesman , referring to the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.

The U.S. Treasury didn't immediately respond to a request for comment.

The Venezuelan baseball league's predicament reflects the challenges for companies and average Venezuelans alike in the wake of the U.S.'s heavy pressure campaign against the Maduro regime. Frequently modified punitive measures have forced many entities to take drastic actions to cut ties with Venezuela and minimize risks.

Earlier this month, Venezuelans were enraged as Adobe and Oracle cut off customers of their software products in the country.

Julio Márquez, a political activist and baseball fanatic,  he has watched with a heavy heart as the quality of the game at the Nueva Esparta Stadium on his home island of Margarita—once a thriving tourist attraction—has plummeted in recent years due to the disaster he blames on  decades of government corruption and mismanagement.

He  he understood the U.S. league's concern over doing business with their Venezuelan counterparts and had little hope that conditions would improve even if the leagues and the U.S. government were to reach an agreement.

"You can't have night games because there are no lights. There's no running water, nor security and the cost of entry is just too high," Mr. Márquez . "Who's going to assume all of these costs? The quality of the baseball is still going to be bad."

Nevertheless, the resolution drafted by Venezuela's league represents a rare move to separate themselves from an authoritarian government that has exerted control over everything from media to sports organizations. Calls to Venezuela's Ministry of Youth and Sports went unanswered.

For Venezuelan regime officials, the continuation of the nation's top sport has been key in their efforts to display a sense of normalcy in a fastdeteriorating country. Between street demonstrations and a couple of coup attempts in recent years, Mr. Maduro at times appears on state television playing ball with his aides to show they remain comfortably in control.

"We're going to have baseball here, even if we have to play ourselves," Diosdado Cabello, the ruling socialist party's secondmost powerful figure,  in late August in response to the MLB ban.

With Venezuela's economic calamity weighing, league officials say they had no choice but to take sponsorship from government institutions  years ago. Now they say they are ing to do everything it takes to keep the game alive.

"The Venezuelan Professional Baseball League is committed to playing baseball this season," the league statement .



8.
The Perilous Road Out of Venezuela  WSJ

A young couple finds how difficult it is to leave; 'I feel like the  violinist on the Titanic'

By Kejal Vyas | Photographs by Oscar B. Castillo for The Wall Street Journal 
This article is being republished as part of our daily reproduction of WSJ.com articles that appeared in the U.S. print edition of The Wall Street Journal (October 3, 2019).

CARACAS, Venezuela  Jonathan Morales and Daliana Loyo were ready to leave. Mr. Morales, a 26yearold chef, had hidden his life savings of $150 inside the waistband of his underwear. Ms. Loyo, a 23yearold nurse, had a grilled eggplant for the trip, packed up by her grandmother. All they carried was  backpacks and a borrowed suitcase.

 dozen members of their families had already abandd Venezuela. Their remaining relatives  only the very old, who could no longer travel  came to see them off that June day. They took group photos and cracked jokes to ease their sadness.

Visas to Chile in hand, the young couple took their seats on a bus to the Colombian border. Many of their fellow passengers, who hoped to leave for good, were traveling without documents. A 22hour ride stretched in front of them.

Minutes after the bus departed, a man stood up, saying he was from the transportation company. He warned every that soldiers tend to board along the route and extort riders. He urged riders to scatter their my and valuables inside their clothes and luggage. He advised some to pretend to be mute.

Migrants are a frequent target of soldiers, and his job was to guide passengers to border crossings and help with paperwork  which could attract unwanted attention.

"If any soldiers get on board," he , "you don't know me. They'll throw me into jail."

Amid political turmoil, violence, food shortages and a disintegrating economy, more than four million Venezuelans have left their country. It is the largest migration crisis in modern Latin American history.

Leaving is difficult, especially as nearby countries have tightened up migration policies. Some Venezuelans take illegal paths, paying off gangs at the border. Soldiers might rob them of the little clothes and my they carry. Travelers with visas can get extorted as well.

Most of those who leave have little my for food and housing. Finding work is difficult. Xenophobia generated by the mass migration has spawned bouts of vigilante justice in Brazil, Peru and elsewhere after locals accused Venezuelans of crimes or of taking local jobs.

Mr. Morales and Ms. Loyo made getting out a priority after they started dating three years ago. They were both working as nurses for a health clinic in eastern Caracas, where they helped save the lives of gunshot victims, heartattack patients and protesters left bloodied by authoritarian President Nicolás Maduro's shock troops during antigovernment demonstrations.

Struggling to survive on salaries that could barely pay for a pound of cheese each month, they came to the conclusion that there was no future in Venezuela.

"My grandparents used to tell me, 'Don't go,' "  Ms. Loyo. "Now they say, 'Flee as fast as you can.' "

The day before the bus trip, Mr. Morales went to the cemetery with a rag and a bottle of soapy water and washed the headst over the grave of his teenage brother, Jhonny, who had been shot dead by gangsters four years ago.

He swept away fallen leaves with a wornout broom and laid down a fistful of marigolds. A short walk away, he tidied the graves of  cousins, both victims of police shootings. Looters had smashed headsts and broken into nearby graves looking for valuables and the human bs used in Santeria religious rituals.

"Everything around me just screams: Get out of here!" he .

Falling apart

Mr. Morales had lived his whole life in a gritty barrio of western Caracas called Caricuao. He followed the advice of his mother, Nanci León, a nurse who told him to study hard and, as she did, get a publicsector job for stability.

The joy of graduating from nursing school was overshadowed by the murders of Jhonny and his  cousins, all in 2015. The oilrich country had once been  of the region's wealthiest, but the economy was quickly falling apart.

Ms. Loyo was raised by her grandparents, Rufino and Daria Loyo, on a farm just east of Caracas after being abandd by her mother as a child. They grew their own eggplants, passion fruit and plantains, which helped shield them from food shortages.

Venezuela's troubles hit Mr. Morales and Ms. Loyo at their first job. The clinic's emergency room lacked basic medical supplies, so nurses had to pay for their own firstaid kits.

Ms. Loyo spent more on transportation to get to work than she could earn, the equivalent of a few U.S. dollars a month. She barely ed half a year.

Mr. Morales worked through the deadly demonstrations that roiled the Chacao district in 2017. Mr. Morales calls his work as a medic, plucking out buckshots from the bodies of demonstrators, "my contribution to the country."

By year's end, both began new jobs as homecare nurses for elderly patients in a wealthy part of town. Even there the pay was paltry. Mr. Morales decided to use his little savings to take a culinary course, which got him a job at a cafeteria. The job included lunch, which helped resolve the daily concern of how to get enough to eat.

In June 2018, the couple applied for work visas in Chile at the recommendation of Mr. Morales's older brother, Jeimison, who had emigrated to Santiago.

Each morning for 10 months, Mr. Morales would log onto the Chilean embassy website and check for confirmation their applications were in process, refreshing the page throughout the day. That became challenging as rolling blackouts hit Caricuao, where he shared a cramped apartment with his mother. Their home didn't have water for much of the past  years, so they collected runoff water in buckets from a nearby factory.

In January, the U.S. and dozens of countries declared that the legitimate leader of Venezuela was opposition leader Juan Guaidó, and not Mr. Maduro, whose authoritarian regime has overseen the economic collapse. Mr. Morales, haunted by the bloodied protesters he had treated, questid whether protests would really trigger change.

"What's the point?" he . "So I can end up dead like so many others?"

Polls by the Caracas firm Datanalisis show that nearly thirds of Venezuelans want to leave the country, and 95% expect living conditions to deteriorate.

Mr. Morales and Ms. Loyo began mapping out an eightday journey by bus and foot to get to Chile without papers, as many family members had d.

Earlier this year, Ms. Loyo had a serious stomach virus. Her treatment cost $50, erasing months of income. "We need to be reborn," she .

In April, Mr. Morales got an email from the Chilean embassy: Their visa application had been approved. Their elation was tempered by the fact that they had no my to pay for the trip. That's where Peggy Christian, 58, a Venezuelan exile in Denver, came in.

Help from abroad

Ms. Christian had worked with Mr. Morales caring for a hospice patient in Caracas before she fled to the U.S. on a visa  years ago. She's among the 43,000 medical personnel  nurses, doctors and hospital technicians  that advocacy groups say have left Venezuela.

Ms. Christian had kept in touch with Mr. Morales from the U.S. When he told her about his ordeal, she offered them a loan to pay for the trip to Santiago.

"What's happening to these youths in Venezuela is the fault of my generation," she . "We never thought things would get this bad."

Ms. Christian  she sets aside some of her savings to help former colleagues, even as she deals with her own challenges in the U.S. Unable to obtain certified copies of her university diploma from Venezuela, she hasn't been able to work as a nurse in the U.S. Instead, she works as a nurse's assistant, which pays half as much.

Nor have things g well for the seven others whose exits Ms. Christian helped finance. Only  has found a job as a nurse.

"It breaks my heart every day," Ms. Christian .

Ms. Christian spent $800 to help Mr. Morales and Ms. Loyo travel, purchasing bus tickets to the border of Colombia and then flights to Bogotá; Lima, Peru; and finally Santiago.

Most friends had left Venezuela, so Mr. Morales's farewell party was attended by only  of his college classmates.

"I feel like the  violinist on the Titanic," he  at the gathering.

The journey

A tense calm fell over the bus after the transportation company worker told passengers to hide their my.

A woman next to Mr. Morales read the Bible's Book of Exodus. Others tried to sleep, only to be awakened by drips of water leaking from the ceiling or the cockroaches that infested the bus.

The vehicle was silent as it crossed the grassy plains of Venezuela's heartland. With power scarce, the pitch black of the night was interrupted only by the trashcan fires that National Guard troops huddled around. Holding assault rifles, and at times wearing ski masks, they occasionally flagged down buses for random checks.

After about 12 hours, an officer at a checkpoint boarded the bus. Most passengers kept their heads down to avoid attracting attention. The officer inspected national ID cards  and left.

Passengers looked around with smiles as they realized no  had been dragged off. Out of the  dozen checkpoints they passed, it was the only time soldiers boarded the bus.

More officers awaited the travelers at the border. The next day, the bus dropped off the group a few streets from the Simón Bolívar International Bridge, connecting Venezuela and Colombia. Some 5,000 Venezuelans cross on foot every day, with National Guard soldiers stopping some at random.

3 Oct 2019 02:32 ET The Perilous Road Out of Venezuela  WSJ 2

Mr. Morales and Ms. Loyo quickly walked across. As they stepped onto Colombian territory, a look of relief crossed Ms. Loyo's face, despite the weight of her oversize backpack.

Cúcuta, with a population of 750,000, has long been a commerce hub, but many of the Venezuelans who cross over no longer go back. The city has been the main entry point for the 1.4 million who now reside in Colombia.

Venezuelans who have packed their lives into suitcases sit in the city's central park, Santander Square, with dazed looks, often with no plans on how to begin anew. Scores of young Venezuelan sex workers sell their bodies on the street after dark. Many migrants simply start walking, taking days to reach the next city.

Mr. Morales and Ms. Loyo visited Mr. Morales's former neighbor and fellow nurse, Darwin Vásquez, in Cúcuta. He left Caracas  years ago after being robbed of his motorcycle at gunpoint. Now he works as a truck driver and struggles to support his teenage son as well as his family back in Venezuela. He rents out a room to Venezuelan travelers.

"It's been a rough awakening," Mr. Vásquez , pointing to his ripped jeans and the soles coming off his shoes. Without a nurse's license, he can't work in his profession. He provides free advice to neighbors who can't afford medical care.

Mr. Morales and Ms. Loyo found the bustle of Cúcuta a dramatic improvement from Caracas, which shuts down at night because of crime and rolling blackouts. They watched as  calmly strolled the sidewalks and teams of Rollerbladers glided on a public track after dark. They noticed that drivers actually obeyed traffic signals. In Caracas, carjackers target drivers who have stopped at red lights.

Ms. Loyo called home: "Grandma, you're not going to believe what I'm seeing."

A new beginning

 nights later, Mr. Morales and Ms. Loyo took their firstever flight, to Bogotá. There, they took advantage of a sixhour layover to visit Mr. Morales's cousin Glyznel Jiménez, a chemist struggling to get by with a job scaling fish.

Ms. Jiménez and her husband had walked to the Colombian border with their 6yearold daughter on a dirt path earlier this year. They then paid a fee to a gang that controls the illegal routes that lead into Colombia  about $1.50 each. They are considering trying their luck in another South American country.

The Brookings Institution estimates the number of Venezuelan migrants could double to eight million in the next  years, far more than the six million who fled warravaged Syria. Per capita, Venezuelan migrants have seen less than 2% of the international aid that has been committed for Syrian refugees.

While the mass inflow has strained developing nations across Latin America, many of those arriving are trained professionals, new consumers and young workers who could propel growth,  Paula Andrea Rossiasco, a  Bank migration specialist.

A recent study by the bank estimated that it had cost the Venezuelan state $3 billion in educational investments to train the hundreds of thousands of workingage adults now in Peru, where Ms. Rossiasco is based.

A poll earlier this year in Peru found 34% of Venezuelans there were working jobs that required no training. Just 8% had worked unskilled jobs before leaving Venezuela.

After their visit with Ms. Jiménez, Mr. Morales and Ms. Loyo caught the plane for Lima. There, they slept on the floor of the airport, clutching their luggage, before their next flight. On the flight to Santiago the next day, they glimpsed the snowcapped Andes  a staggering sign that they were far from their tropical homeland.

When they got to the tiny, 21ststory apartment where Mr. Morales's brother lives with his family, no  was home. Jeimison Morales was starting his first day manning the fry station at Kentucky Fried Chicken. His wife was working her sevendayaweek sales gig at a print shop.

The improvised bedroom set aside for Mr. Morales and Ms. Loyo had just enough room for a twin bed. It didn't matter.

"I think this is when the good part begins," Ms. Loyo , dancing a jig in the kitchen as Mr. Morales cooked up a broccoli risotto. The simple ingredients needed for the dish would have taken weeks of work to buy in Venezuela, he .

On their first few nights in their new home, friends and cousins from Caricuao gave them a walking tour. With debts to pay to Ms. Christian, and hoping to send my home to their families, Mr. Morales and Ms. Loyo were soon knocking on doors and filling out applications at restaurants and shoe stores.

Their new neighborhood features Venezuelan barbershops and bodegas. The distinct Caribbeaninfused accents from Venezuela are never far in Chile, where 300,000 Venezuelans now live.

Friends offered advice on bundling up to protect themselves from the Southern Hemisphere winter.

"I'm not too worried," Mr. Morales . "If I get cold, I'll just think of Maduro."



9.


Emerging and Growth Markets, September 21st 2019

Fleeing Venezuelans Seek Refuge in Spain  WSJ


MADRID  As dusk fell on a recent summer evening, clusters of Venezuelans flocked to Madrid's historic Mercado de Maravillas, where, for a few fleeting moments, they were transported back home.

They shopped for imported Venezuelan products and sampled typical dishes like the country's arepas corn cakes at food stalls. Some knocked back Venezuelan beers while chatting about news from their country. Here and there, the yellow, blue and red of the Venezuelan flag adorned the walls.

"Venezuelans come even from far away because they feel at home here,"  Kelthvyn Martínez, 29 years old, while preparing food for sale.

More than 320,000 Venezuelans now live in Spain, nearly double the 2015 number, part of a growing exodus as the country slides further into poverty and authoritarian rule under President Nicolás Maduro.

More than 3.6 million  have left Venezuela since 2015, reducing its population to about 28 million. The poorest cross the border to Colombia, where their arrival is straining the economy. The wealthier make their way to the U.S., especially Miami. Others, if they have the means, fly to Spain, where they rely on cultural and linguistic ties to get a foothold in Europe.

In some instances, émigrés such as former Caracas Mayor Antonio Ledezma use the country as a base to lobby Madrid and other European capitals to take a hard line on Mr. Maduro's regime. But most are simply trying to escape. Thousands of Venezuelans gathered in Madrid in January to recognize opposition leader Juan Guaidó as the new president.

A few days later, Spain recognized Mr. Guaidó as caretaker president until new elections are held, joining dozens of other countries.

The ties between Venezuelans and Spaniards run deep. Almost half the Venezuelans in Spain already hold a Spanish passport, according to the latest data from Spain's National Statistics Institute, often through grandparents who fled Spain during the civil war and the Franco dictatorship.

Many of the rest tap into existing Venezuelan nerks to negotiate their way through the Spanish bureaucracy or share tips on where to find offthebooks jobs or cheap accommodation until their work permits arrive.

Getting established in Spain isn't necessarily smooth or easy. The process to claim asylum or permanent right to stay can take years. But Spain's government this year began providing temporary protection and work permits to Venezuelans on humanitarian grounds as their applications percolate through the system.

Some experts say Spain could gain from the influx. Its population is quickly graying, with the proportion of the population over 60 years of age projected to rise from around a quarter to 42% by 2050, according to a United Nations study.

"It's hard to dispute that qualified immigrants, younger than Spaniards and with a similar culture, have a positive effect on society in the long run,"  Jorge Galindo, a Spanish sociologist based in Colombia. "In this respect, Venezuelan immigration is the best you could think of."

Felipe Costales, for instance, applied for asylum in 2016, alleging he was a victim of political persecution. After he received temporary protection from Venezuelan authorities, which entitles him to a work permit, he quickly landed a job as programmer at a company developing control systems for air navigation equipment.

"As soon as I got the permit I found this job," Mr. Costales . "Before, I felt like a nobody, like I was totally vulnerable to everything."

Venezuelans face little of the animosity directed toward migrants from, say, Africa or the Middle East.

"A migrant coming from a Latin American brothercountry, with the same culture, same language, with the same view, isn't the same as an immigrant coming from an Islamic country,"  Santiago Abascal, leader of Spain's farright Vox party, at an election rally earlier this year.

More Venezuelans appear set to arrive as Mr. Maduro's government steps up political persecution and supplies of food, medicine and electricity run low. In the first half of this year, around 20,000 Venezuelans sought international protection in Spain, or the same number for the whole of  year and double the figure for 2017.

Luisa Marcano, 50, recalled the food shortages and street gangs that preyed on her and her family in Ciudad Bolívar before she reached Spain 2 1/2 years ago. "We used to line up for eight hours to buy food, sometimes even more than  day," she  while having some food with her son at Mr. Martínez's stall at the Maravillas market.

A kindergarten teacher back in Venezuela, she now washes dishes in a restaurant. Her husband is a courier, while in Venezuela he was a taxi driver.

At the other end of the spectrum are wealthy Venezuelans making sizable investments in Spain, snapping up properties in prime locations such as the Salamanca neighborhood, a couple of miles from the Maravillas market.

Patricio Palomar, head of alternative investments at AIRE Partners in Madrid, calculates that Venezuelan investments in real estate have totaled some EUR700 million ($775 million) over the past 10 years.

Other Venezuelans are simply relieved to be alive.

Ricardo Ordóñez, who was a town councilor in northern Venezuela, left his home after a receiving a series of death threats. He  he feared for his life, but found peace in Madrid.

"Spain opened its doors to Venezuelans and welcomed us with open arms," he .



9. Global Forex and Fixed Income Roundup: Market Talk



Colombia Foreign Minister Carlos Holmes says his government  lobby for international support to confront the authoritarian regime of Venezuela, accusing the latter of harboring Colombian terrorist groups. Holmes tells BLU Radio that he  seek support from  leaders at the UN General Assembly later this month. On Sunday, Colombian magazine Semana cited leaked Colombian intelligence reports indicating that a top Venezuelan military official had given orders to provide support to training camps used by Colombian guerrilla groups within Venezuelan territory. The allegations could further fray relations between both nations amid a massive flow of refugees out of Venezuela and Colombia's government's decision to back Venezuelan opposition leader Juan Guaido's effort to overthrow the Maduro regime. (kejal.vyas@wsj.com; @kejalvyas)

In building an index that tries to measure the effect of President Trump's tweets on rates volatility, JPMorgan finds marketmoving tweets ballod in frequency during August. The firm says there's "strong evidence that tweets have increasingly moved US rates markets immediately after publication," having played a statistically significant role in elevating implied rates volatility. The "Volfefe index" uses supervised machine learning to scan the president's Twitter feed, which has averaged more than 10 tweets a day since the start of 2016although, during 2018present, only 146 presidential tweets out of about 4,000 were deemed to be market moving. Unsurprisingly, the most common word in a marketmoving Trump tweet is "China." (jonathan.vuocolo@wsj.com; @jonvuocolo)

Sterling has recovered recently as nodeal Brexit risks have receded but there's still no reason for investors to adopt long positions, Ian Tew, Barclays' head of G10 FX spot trading says in a conference call. "There's been a reduction in underweight positions and a topping up of hedges but  are certainly not going long [buying sterling] with any conviction," he says. "It's hard for sterling to rally significantly while we have this political backdrop." Earlier this year investors bought sterling on expectations of a Brexit resolution, but recently these trades have been unwound. Election risks could cause another spike in volatility, he says. Nodeal Brexit chances have fallen from a peak of 55%60% to 25% now, he says. (jessica.fleetham@wsj.com)

Mexico's 2020 federal budget proposal, including a fiscal deficit of 2.6% of GDP and a 0.7% primary surplus, suggests there  be a tilt towards providing modest stimulus to the struggling economy, Capital Economics says. But "the overall picture is that this budget still looks pretty austere ... and, even accounting for some modest slippage, the public debt trajectory doesn't look particularly alarming." Goldman Sachs estimates that the projected deficit would raise public sector debttoGDP by 0.3 percentage point in 2020 to 45.6%. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)


10. Terrorist Haven Allegations Threaten ColombiaVenezuela Relations  Market Talk
 Colombia Foreign Minister Carlos Holmes says his government  lobby for international support to confront the authoritarian regime of Venezuela, accusing the latter of harboring Colombian terrorist groups. Holmes tells BLU Radio that he  seek support from  leaders at the UN General Assembly later this month. On Sunday, Colombian magazine Semana cited leaked Colombian intelligence reports indicating that a top Venezuelan military official had given orders to provide support to training camps used by Colombian guerrilla groups within Venezuelan territory. The allegations could further fray relations between both nations amid a massive flow of refugees out of Venezuela and Colombia's government's decision to back Venezuelan opposition leader Juan Guaido's effort to overthrow the Maduro regime. (kejal.vyas@wsj.com; @kejalvyas)




11. REVIEW & OUTLOOK (Editorial)
Squeezing Venezuela's Comrades

The  of Venezuela continue to suffer under socialist dictator Nicolas Maduro, who is sustained by his patrons in Cuba, Russia and China. So it's welcome news this week that the Trump Administration has toughened sanctions against the regime and its abettors.

The executive order freezes Venezuelan assets in the U.S. and prohibits transactions  directly or indirectly touching the U.S. financial system  with individuals or entities of the Venezuelan government. U.S. national security adviser John Bolton told the International Conference for Democracy in Venezuela on Tuesday that "we are taking this step to deny Maduro access to the global financial system, and to further isolate him internationally. In addition, we are sending a signal to third parties that want to do business with the Maduro regime: proceed with extreme caution."

The regime has already been squeezed by a ban on Venezuelan oil shipments to the U.S. The new measures aim to try to cut the lifelines from Cuba, Russia and China. Sanctid individuals  be denied entry to the U.S.

The Trump Administration has morality and regional politics on its side. As Mr. Bolton  on Tuesday from Lima, Peru, the free  of the hemisphere can't ignore the humanitarian crisis created and maintained by Caracas.

"Maduro uses death squads, trained and equipped by Cuba, to kidnap, imprison, torture, and kill," Mr. Bolton . Families "dig through garbage cans in search of anything to feed themselves and their children" while international "medicine deliveries" are turned away. Putting that on the record before countries that have pledged to defend democracy lays down an important marker.

Most of the more than four million Venezuelan refugees who have fled the once oilrich nation have landed in neighboring countries that lack the resources to easily absorb them. Without regime change in Caracas, the refugee wave could double this year.

Mr. Bolton stressed U.S. support for democratically elected Venezuelan interim President Juan Guaido. "We seek the peaceful transfer of power, but as President Trump has  from the beginning: All options are on the table," Mr. Bolton .

That doesn't have to mean war. A waiver for operating in Venezuela until October  granted to Chevron, Halliburton and other U.S. companies at the end of July  may not be renewed. That " give us an opportunity to land another blow in 80 days," a senior administration official told us on Tuesday.

Cuba is desperate to maintain control of Venezuela because it needs Mr. Maduro's oil to keep its economy afloat. But U.S. measures to deny ships access to U.S. ports if they carry oil from Venezuela to Cuba have reduced the number of available cargo vessels ready to do the job. Shipments to Cuba have been cut by more than half, which means Cuba isn't getting the same return on its investment in secret police and regime enforcers it has sent to Venezuela.

Cuba  try to persuade Mr. Maduro that he can wait out the Trump Presidency, despite shrinking oil revenues, hyperinflation and rising discontent in the army. But at some point Mr. Maduro  have to choose between saving himself or risking his life for the Cuban elite that he finances.


12.

BOGOTÁ, Colombia  President Ivan Duque's government is granting citizenship to more than 24,000 children born here to Venezuelan refugees and considered stateless, providing relief to anguished parents who had fled economic calamity in Venezuela but worried about accessing services in their new home.

"This is such good news,"  Mariela Martiarena, 31 years old, whose 10monthold daughter, Isabella, was born here in Bogotá after she and her husband, David Hernandez, had fled the Venezuelan capital. "I think this is very good because this is the best for her. She needs everything, like health care. She needs it for her future."

About 1.4 million of the estimated four million Venezuelans who have fled their country have wound up here in Colombia, which shares a long border with Venezuela and has received more Venezuelans than anywhere else. Hundreds of thousands of them settled here without papers, and Colombian government officials and international aid organizations expect many more as Venezuela's economy continues to disintegrate.

Until now, the babies born to Venezuelans who are undocumented  and to those on temporary visas that permit a year stay  had been unable to obtain Colombian citizenship. Because Venezuela's authoritarian government no longer operates consular services in Colombia, new parents couldn't register their newborns as Venezuelans, either.

Those babies, until now, have officially been citizens of no country.

In a press conference on Monday, Mr. Duque  government ministries had developed a plan that grants citizenship to babies born to Venezuelan migrants since August 2015 and those who  be born in the next  years. The president  by bestowing citizenship, Colombia was meeting international obligations for the treatment of refugees and the commitments set out in its constitution, which puts the rights of children above all others.

"We reaffirm as a nation to the  that Colombia, in difficult times, puts fraternity above all else," Mr. Duque . "We support these defenseless children who want the right to nationality. And today, proudly, we tell them they're Colombians."

Humberto Calderon, who represents Venezuela's opposition in Colombia,  the new policy was a model to the , which has seen an exodus of Syrian and Central American migrants who have encountered obstacles. "Even with Colombia's limitations," he , "they've taken in our  with so much generosity, without any sign of xenophobia, and given Colombian nationality to 24,000 babies."

Colombia's government considers Mr. Calderon the envoy for Venezuelan opposition leader Juan Guaidó, who Colombia, the U.S. and more than 50 other countries recognize as Venezuela's legitimate leader because President Nicolás Maduro was reelected  year in a vote widely considered fraudulent. Mr. Calderon and other Venezuelans now control the embassy here, and he  they are working to get consular services up and running to be able to provide Venezuelan citizenship to babies born here to Venezuelan parents.

Mr. Maduro's government didn't have immediate comment about Colombia's new policy or Mr. Calderon's plans.

Across the Americas, including the U.S., birthright citizenship is automatically granted. Colombia's constitution permits birthright citizenship but regulations called on at least  parent to be here under a certain kind of visa.

"What we did was change that criteria regarding those children because they're not coming here as tourists, nor are they being born here and going elsewhere,"  Christian Krüger, head of the government's Migration Colombia agency.

Until now, thousands of Venezuelan parents who had g to the civilregistry agency with their newborns received a birth certificate featuring tiny footprints and the message, "Not valid for citizenship."

"When I went to register, they told me they couldn't give us Colombian nationality because n of us, neither the mom nor I, are Colombians,"  Javier Pérez, who deserted from Venezuela's National Guard this year. His wife later joined him here and gave birth to a girl.

He  there was no way to register her as a Venezuelan, and he has no plans to return to his homeland. "What I want, with my wife and my brother who's with me, is to find work and stay here in Colombia," he .

With Monday's announcement, Ydielyn Tabare, 24,  she was going to take her weekold baby, Adelyn Sevilla, to the civil registry and ensure her birth certificate note she is now Colombian. She arrived by bus from central Venezuela  year, began working in a clothing store and became pregnant after her husband, Antonio Sevilla, made it here.

Without paperwork for the baby, she , everything requires more red tape. That includes accessing health services and, in the future, putting her in day care. She  they want to eventually emigrate to Spain, where they have relatives. Now, all of this is possible.

"It's such a relief," she . ""Now I can get the paperwork for my daughter. I'm happy."


13.
Teen Love Letters to America

'I came to the United States  years ago," wrote Sara, because of "the civil war which made it unsafe for us to stay" in Yemen. "We had to leave to save our lives." Sara, 13, plans to become a physician.

"A lot of fighting, robbery, murder and political problems" forced Taslima and her family to come to America from Bangladesh three years ago. The eighthgrader intends to be a cardiologist or neurologist. "I  study hard," she promises.

"The situation in our country is horrible," wrote Milagros, 13, about Venezuela. Her family arrived here three years ago "looking for a better place to live." Milagros dreams of becoming the first Latina to start a company valued at $1 billion.

So go three letters from teenagers I recently received. In December the Journal published "Requiem for a Doorman," my essay about Carlos Nino, who'd worked in my apartment building. I knew him for 40 years and called him a friend.

Carlos came to the U.S. from Colombia at 18 with little education or my. A model citizen, he worked  jobs and put both his sons through college. He retired prematurely to care for his ailing wife, only to die of heart failure months after her cancer went into remission.

Soon after my essay appeared, I got a letter from Evelyn Gomez, a veteran socialstudies teacher at IS 235, the Academy for New Americans, a public middle school in Astoria, Queens, that serves newly arrived immigrants from grades six through eight. She had read the piece to her 20 students. Those students then sent me letters, too.

They explained why they had migrated  from Africa, Asia, Europe, Latin America and elsewhere  to the U.S. Some had fled hardship. Most acknowledged pursuing educational and economic opportunities all but unavailable back home. They plan to be computer scientists, lawyers, dentists and mechanical engineers.

I was invited to speak at the school, among the few in New York City that specialize in educating immigrant children. In midMay I gave my talk to some 150 students, teachers and parents. I told why I had honored Carlos in my essay. I revealed my own immigrant history, with both my grandfathers coming here in the early 20th century and eventually starting families and successful businesses. I explained, too, why my essays so often pay tribute to Queens, the most ethnically diverse place on the planet. Finally, I urged the students to write about themselves to benefit generations to come.

Afterward, a student handed me a packet containing handmade cards with personal messages inside from 81 of his schoolmates. Card after card spoke of families coming to our country to seek better lives and better futures.

I could write back to wish these kids luck. But that would feel redundant. Living here now, they're already getting all the luck they'll likely ever need.




14.


U.S. Imposes Sanctions on the Son of Venezuela's President Nicolas Maduro
 The Trump administration has imposed sanctions on the son of Venezuela's embattled President Nicolás Maduro for his involvement in his father's regime.

The new action against Nicolas "Nicolasito" Ernesto MaduroGuerra cites his involvement in Venezuela's National Constituent Assembly, or ANC, a body created by President Maduro to supersede the oppositioncontrolled congress,

Mr. MaduroGuerra was elected as a member of the National Constituent Assembly "following the fraudulent creation of the Assembly, which served only to commandeer the constitutional powers of the legitimate National Assembly and further entrench his father's regime," the Treasury Department  in a statement Friday.

A brutal economic crisis marked by food and medicine shortages, along with the 's highest inflation, has made Mr. Maduro's leftist government widely unpopular.

Amid growing discontent, the U.S. has supported the rise of Venezuela's National Assembly leader Juan Guaidó as the legitimate leader of Venezuela and endorsed public uprisings against Mr. Maduro. Washington has imposed crippling sanctions on Venezuela's oil sector as well as several officials in the Maduro regime.

The sanctions ban Americans from doing business with any cited individuals or entities and freeze any assets they have in the U.S.




There was no immediate response from Caracas, which routinely rejects U.S. sanctions as part of a campaign to besmirch the selfdeclared leftist government here.

A brutal economic crisis marked by food and medicine shortages, along with the 's highest inflation, has made Mr. Maduro's leftist government widely unpopular.

Amid growing discontent, the U.S. has supported the rise of Venezuela's National Assembly leader Juan Guaidó as the legitimate leader of Venezuela and endorsed public uprisings against Mr. Maduro. Washington has imposed crippling sanctions on Venezuela's oil sector as well as several officials in the Maduro regime.

Meanwhile, a new report says the number of Venezuelan migrants fleeing the country's humanitarian crisis could double to 8 million  in the next 18 months, representing fourth of the nation's total population before the exodus began.

The report from the Organization of American States  Venezuela's migration could become the biggest 's exodus in decades, surpassing the 6.7 million refugees who have fled wartorn Syria.

The study called for greater international support for South America nations already grappling with an influx of fleeing, impoverished Venezuelans.

"They aren't fleeing voluntarily, they aren't leaving because they want to. They're being forced to flee,"  David Smolansky, an exiled Venezuelan opposition politician who presented the report at the OAS's annual general assembly in Medellin, Colombia. "This crisis needs a global vision."

The action against Nicolas "Nicolasito" Ernesto MaduroGuerra cites his involvement in Venezuela's National Constituent Assembly a body created by President Maduro to supersede the oppositioncontrolled congress.

He joined more than 100 other Venezuelan officials sanctid by the U.S. Those sanctions ban Americans from doing business with any cited individuals or entities and freeze any assets they have in the U.S.

Mr. MaduroGuerra was elected as a member of the National Constituent Assembly "following the fraudulent creation of the Assembly, which served only to commandeer the constitutional powers of the legitimate National Assembly and further entrench his father's regime," the Treasury Department  in a statement Friday.

There was no immediate response from Caracas, which routinely rejects U.S. sanctions as part of a campaign to besmirch the selfdeclared leftist government here.

A brutal economic crisis marked by food and medicine shortages, along with the 's highest inflation, has made Mr. Maduro's leftist government widely unpopular. The nation's economy, which has already contracted by half in recent years, is expected to shrink another 25% this year, according to the International Mtary Fund.

Amid growing discontent, the U.S. has supported the rise of Venezuela's National Assembly leader Juan Guaidó as the legitimate leader of Venezuela and endorsed public uprisings against Mr. Maduro. Washington has imposed crippling sanctions on Venezuela's oil sector as well as several officials in the Maduro regime.

Meanwhile, a new report says the number of Venezuelan migrants fleeing the country's humanitarian crisis could double to 8 million  by the end of 2020, representing fourth of the nation's total population before the exodus began.

The report from the Organization of American States  Venezuela's migration could become the biggest 's exodus in decades, surpassing the 6.7 million refugees who have fled wartorn Syria.

"This is a tragedy," Paraguay's deputy foreign relations minister, Antonio Rivas,  at the OAS's annual general assembly in the Colombian city of Medellín where the report was released. "It's affecting every country in the region."

The study called for greater international support for South America nations already grappling with an influx of fleeing, impoverished Venezuelans.

"They aren't fleeing voluntarily, they aren't leaving because they want to. They're being forced to flee,"  David Smolansky, an exiled Venezuelan opposition politician who presented the report. "This crisis needs a global vision."


15.  News

Number of Displaced  Hits Postwar Record; According to a new U.N. report, nearly 1% of the 's population was displaced at the end of 2018


The number of  fleeing persecution, conflict, violence or humanrights violations, including refugees, asylum seekers and those displaced within their own country, rose by 2.3 million  year, according to the report from the U.N. refugee agency, the UNHCR. The figure is conservative as it doesn't fully capture the rapidly evolving situation in Venezuela, the UNHCR .

Nearly 1% of the 's population was displaced at the end of 2018, the report , compared with 0.6% in 2011.

The new Global Trends report comes as migration and refugees have become a central political issue in many countries, including the U.S. and much of Europe. President Trump has kept the issue central in the U.S. political debate[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/trumptolaunchfreshimmigrationoverhaulbid11557956429] and it has crept into the rhetoric of Democratic presidential contenders as they prepare for their first debate later this month.

In Europe, the issue partly fueled the rise of rightwing populists across the region, including in Italy, Germany and the Netherlands, in the runup to the recent elections for the European Parliament. Closing borders and clamping down on asylum seekers has become  of the few issues uniting European nationalists as they struggle to band together[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/insearchofinfluenceeuropesnationalistsreachtowardapact11556221397] and influence EU policy decisions.

Dealing with the refugee situation is " of the great challenges of our times,"  Filippo Grandi, head of the UNHCR.

The U.S. received the most asylum applications  year, at about 254,300, down from 331,700 in 2017. Almost all came from El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Mexico and Venezuela. The next largest recipients were Peru with 192,500 and Germany with 161,900. At the end of 2018, the U.S. had more than 700,000 asylum applications to process, more than any other country.

Almost 350,000 Venezuelans escaping political unrest and the collapse of the country's economy sought asylum in other countries in 2018, accounting for 20% of wide asylum requests and making them the singlebiggest group by nationality. About 3.4 million Venezuelans have left the country in recent years and with another 5,000 a day departing, the total could hit 5 million this year, according to the report. That would be almost  in every six Venezuelans.

Most of the 's 26 million refugees, defined as those forced to leave their country, about half of whom are younger than 18, are from Syria, Afghanistan and South Sudan, the UNHCR . Syria al accounts for 6.7 million of the total, with most of those having left their country between 2012 and 2015. Another 6.2 million Syrians have been displaced within the country.

For a fifth successive year, Turkey hosted the most refugees in 2018 at 3.7 million, followed by Pakistan. About  in six  living in Lebanon is a refugee, the largest proportion in the . The U.S. hosted 313,200 refugees at the end of  year, about the same as China.

 year's largest new displacement was the 1.6 million Ethiopians who fled their homes due to ethnic violence, with the vast majority staying inside the country. Ethiopia  year became the largest host of Somali refugees, complicating the country's challenge further.



16. Latin America News

BOGOTÁ, Colombia—Venezuela's political opposition welcomed funds from private donors and foreign governments as the movement to remove authoritarian leader Nicolás Maduro gained momentum earlier this year, with my earmarked to help hundreds of Venezuelan soldiers who defected to neighboring Colombia.

But now, accusations that  opposition activists pilfered tens of thousands of dollars from those funds are threatening to become an embarrassment for a coalition that is heavily dependent on the largess of dozens of countries, including the U.S., which is allied with its chief, Juan Guaidó.[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/tensofthousandsprotestvenezuelanpresidentmaduro11548264274?mod=article_inline]

On Tuesday, Mr. Guaidó's aides in Bogotá, scrambling to contain political fallout that could curtail foreign aid in the future, requested that Colombian prosecutors investigate how the  activists allegedly embezzled as much as $60,000.

The my, from private donations, had been allotted to pay some of the costs of hotel rooms, meals and transportation incurred by Venezuelan military deserters, whom Mr. Guaidó had heralded as heroes after they broke from Mr. Maduro and crossed the border to Colombia.

The  accused activists, Rossana Barrera and Kevin Rojas, had been appointed to manage some $100,000. They haven't been charged and couldn't be reached for comment.

More

 How 7.4 Tons of Venezuela's Gold Landed in Africa—and Vanished[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/how74tonsofvenezuelasgoldlandedinafricaandvanished11560867792] (June 18)

 Venezuelans' Latest Woe: Gas Lines That  for Days on End[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/venezuelanslatesegaslinesthatfordaysnd11560159002] (June 10)

 In a Blow to Maduro, Russia Withdraws Key Defense Support to Venezuela[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/inablowtomadurorussiawithdrawskeydefensesupporttovenezuela11559486826] (June 2)

 Venezuela Negotiators Agree to New Round of Talks[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/venezuelanegotiatorsagreetwroundoftalks11558830760] (May 25)

 Maduro Moves to Reassert Authority, Arrest Opposition Leaders[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/maduromovestoreassertauthorityarrestoppositionleaders11556836138?mod=searchresults&page=3&pos=8&mod=article_inline] (May 2)

 Venezuela Crisis: Violence Erupts as Guaidó Calls for Uprising[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/venezuelasguaidosayshehassupportfrommembersofmilitary11556622855] (May 1)

Humberto Calderón Berti, Mr. Guaidó's representative in Bogotá,  he requested the Colombians investigate because the opposition wants to differentiate itself from Mr. Maduro's regime, which is accused of rampant graft. The watchdog organization Transparency International says Venezuela is perceived as  of the most corrupt in the , ranking 168 of 180 countries.

"Our message to the country is that we're different, we are going to act with absolute transparency," Mr. Calderón  in a press conference Tuesday at the attorney general's office here after meeting Colombia's top prosecutor, Fabio Espitia Garzón.

The allegations, made public earlier by the PanAm Post, an antiMaduro news site, come as Mr. Guaidó's movement has lost momentum against Mr. Maduro after a fivemonth pressure campaign of street demonstrations and international sanctions that have failed to unseat him.[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/howplantooustvenezuelanleaderfellapart11556926683]

A recent poll by Venezuelan pollster DatinCorp found that about 36% of respondents recognized the young opposition leader as Venezuela's legitimate president, down from 49% in February. Mr. Maduro was seen as president by 41%, up from 34% of respondents, though Venezuelans blame him for the economic mismanagement that has caused hyperinflation, food shortages and the exodus of millions of migrants.

Mr. Guaidó is facing increased pressure from factions within his own opposition coalition who reject recent negotiations brokered by Norway[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/venezuelanegotiatorsagreetwroundoftalks11558830760] and advocate foreign intervention to remove Mr. Maduro.

"In reality, there's only  real option on the table. That option is force,"  opposition leader pushing for the hardline approach, María Corina Machado,  in a June 12 public letter to Mr. Guaidó.

At the same time, highranking officials in the Maduro government, most of whom face U.S. sanctions for alleged corruption and rights abuses, were quick to take advantage of the allegations against their rivals.

Mr. Maduro's attorney general in Venezuela, Tarek iam Saab,  that "villas and castles" were promised to deserting Venezuelan military officers "but they were left in the street."

He blamed Mr. Guaidó, whom the regime considers a traitor, for the alleged embezzlement. "He should be ashamed, making declarations when he's head of a corruption Mafia," he .

Legal advisers working with Mr. Calderón  they found evidence that the accused activists filed overpriced and fictitious hotel invoices. Mr. Guaidó's administration has been the beneficiary of more than $90 million in humanitarian aid from the governments of Canada, the U.S., the U.K. and Germany. The funds, Mr. Guaidó , are largely managed by the donors and not by the group of Maduro oppnts he heads. He noted that the my for the soldiers was separate from humanitarian donations from foreign governments.

"We're not going to let this hurt and smear all of the effort that we've made" on humanitarian aid matters,  Lester Toledo, a Venezuelan lawmaker in exile who is working with Mr. Guaidó's team. "The first thing that we should be asking for is prison for the corrupt s."

Colombia's attorney general's office  it would begin an inquiry that could lead to a formal investigation.

For Mr. Calderón, what to do with military defectors has become a serious dilemma when Colombia has already received 1.3 million Venezuelans fleeing their country.

Many of the soldiers had crossed into Colombia heeding Mr. Guaidó's illfated call on Feb. 23 to foment a military rebellion.[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/venezuelantroopsdefectamidshowdownatborder11550931389] They later grew disgruntled after Colombian officials and  in Mr. Guaidó's camp told them they would not be converted into a mercenary force. In recent weeks, the Colombian government stopped paying their hotel bills, instead offering monthly stipends and work permits so they could settle into civilian life.

Mr. Calderón  Colombian intelligence authorities told him  months ago to look into alleged misappropriation of my earmarked for the deserters.

"Unfortunately, in our country, we have grown accustomed after 20 years of a dictatorial regime to brush off these acts," Mr. Calderón told reporters.

With hunger spreading, Venezuelans have an increased intolerance for graft and a serious investigation could help draw a distinction between Mr. Guaidó's movement and Mr. Maduro's government,  Moisés Naím, a Venezuelan author and former trade minister. The regime in Caracas is blamed for squandering hundreds of billions of dollars of oil revenue through graft, bankrupting what was once Latin America's wealthiest nation, economists say.

Mr. Maduro's government has  such claims are designed to debilitate his government.

"This can be a golden opportunity for Guaidó," Mr. Naím .




17. Latin America News

Violence Makes Mexico an Unwelcoming Refuge; As U.S. asks neighbor to take in asylum seekers, women in a Tijuana shelter describe the dangers


The Madre Asunta shelter houses 120 women near the U.S. border in Tijuana, Mexico, including some residents who fled violence in the southern state of Guerrero. PHOTO: Sandy Huffaker for The Wall Street Journal

TIJUANA, Mexico—People from Mexico's impoverished south used to migrate to the U.S. in the hopes of getting a better paying job. Nowadays, many are fleeing violence.

As President Trump threatens to impose import tariffs[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/trumppressuresmexicoasseconddayofbordertalksbegin11559826586] on Monday unless Mexico does more to stem the northern flow[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/trumptiesmexicotariffthreatstoheftyimmigrationdemands11559332126] of Central Americans, his administration has called on Mexico to require migrants to request asylum there instead of the U.S. by declaring itself a "safe third country."

Current negotiations between senior U.S. and Mexico officials to contain the migrant tide have touched on such a designation, which could be costly and risks overwhelming border communities. Left un is something migration analysts and security experts say is indisputable: Mexico isn't a safe country.

The surge in migration from Central America and the northbound caravans that infuriated Mr. Trump have eclipsed a silent exodus of Mexicans fleeing the lawlessness of what is known as "untamed Mexico."

"You can hear gunshots while you dress your children for school,"  Elida Nava, who fled Guerrero state with her three children and hopes to join her husband in Washington, D.C. Her brother was kidnapped recently by presumed members of a drug gang not far from her home near a glitzy beach resort in Mexico's south.

"Kids are afraid to go out, and their only aspiration is to join a gang," Ms. Nava  at a shelter in Tijuana.

While fewer Mexicans are migrating north, those that do nowadays often cite violence as the reason, according to migration experts and interviews with dozens of migrants. Some 11,000 Mexicans requested asylum in the U.S. in fiscal year 2018.

The murder rate in Mexico hit a record high  year at 27 per 100,000 , compared with about 5 per 100,000 in the U.S. Rates are still rising, making Mexico  of the 's most dangerous countries[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/400murdersadaythecrisisoflatinamerica1537455390]. Nearly  in four global murders takes place in Mexico, Brazil, Venezuela or Colombia, according to U.N. homicide statistics[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/murderbythenumbers1537476801].

"I don't think Mexico is in the condition to become a safe third country primarily due to the weakness of its institutions,"  Stephanie Leutert, director of the Mexico Security Initiative, a research program at the University of Texas at Austin. Public security institutions in Mexico have never been able to protect migrants and refugees from crime, she .

 teen migrants from Honduras who were part of a caravan  year were stabbed and strangled in Tijuana.

Mexican migration to the U.S. has fallen sharply over the past 15 years, partly due to a slight aging of the population that means fewer young  looking for jobs, as well as economic development and growing middle class. In 2007, some 800,000 Mexicans were apprehended at the southwest border.  year, it was roughly 155,000.

Central America, meanwhile, has sent greater numbers north. In 2007, 54,000 Central Americans from Guatemala, El Salvador and Honduras were apprehended at the U.S. border[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/usmexicoofficialsholdtalksonborderdispute11559741536]. That number swelled to nearly 226,000  year.

A safethirdcountry designation—such as Canada and the U.S. adopted in a 2002 agreement—could flood communities along Mexico's borders with asylum seekers who cite violence as a reason for fleeing.

While parts of Mexico have developed, there are still swaths of the country that more closely resemble Central America than the rest of North America.

In Guerrero state, from the workingclass suburbs of the onceelegant Pacific beach resort of Acapulco to opiumpoppy growing mountain villages close to a road known as "the corridor of death,"[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/usherointraderootedinmexicoscorridorofdeath1501839001] rampant murder and extortion have forced residents to flee to survive.

"It's like a steady drip.  day a family leaves, another  flees the following morning,"  the Rev. Jesús Mendoza, a Catholic priest who has served in Guerrero communities for 40 years.

The population of Acapulco's La Laja slum, where he was parish priest for many years, fell sharply after a criminal organization began to use the area as their base.

"You began to see empty houses, families were no longer there. If they had relatives in the U.S., they had better chances," Father Mendoza .

SHARE YOUR THOUGHTS

How should nations handle  fleeing violence in Mexico and Central America? Join the conversation below.

In villages where smallplot farmers have long cultivated opium poppies and criminal gangs fight for control of the heroin trade, a sharp drop in prices for opium poppies due to the rise of synthetic opioids has fueled migration,  Bishop Salvador Rangel of Chilpancingo, Guerrero's state capital.

Some 5,700 migrants from Guerrero were deported by U.S. authorities in the first three months of this year, more than from any other state in Mexico. In 2018, the number was close to 23,000, a fiveyear high, according to Mexican government figures.

Ms. Nava, the mother of three, is among 120 migrant women staying at the Madre Asunta shelter, an overcrowded house run by Scalabrinian nuns across the border from San Diego, California.

The shelter, in the hills of Tijuana, usually houses 45 . Its backyard is filled with children. Mary Galván, a social worker at Madre Asunta for 25 years,  she sees far more  fleeing violence nowadays than economic migrants.

Adelina Morales, a young migrant from Guerrero staying at Madre Asunta, was employed as a certified translator of the indigenous Mixtec language, but fled in early April after her father was killed and she received death threats.



 Trump Pressures Mexico as Second Day of Border Talks Begin[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/trumppressuresmexicoasseconddayofbordertalksbegin11559826586] (June 6)

 Border Arrests Climb Amid Threat of Tariffs[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/usmexicoofficialsholdtalksonborderdispute11559741536] (June 5)

 Trump Ties Mexico Tariff Threats to Hefty Immigration Demands[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/trumptiesmexicotariffthreatstoheftyimmigrationdemands11559332126] (May 31)

 Latin America Is the Murder Capital of the [https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/400murdersadaythecrisisoflatinamerica1537455390] (Sept. 20, 2018)

She says she doesn't have a death certificate or police report to show U.S. officials what happened. "The authorities told me not to file a criminal complaint, otherwise I'd be killed too," she .

In late April, U.S. Customs and Border Protection officials found a 3yearold boy crying al in a cornfield in Texas. He was from Acapulco, and was abandd by professional smugglers hired by relatives in Guerrero to take him to his parents in the U.S., Mexican authorities told The Wall Street Journal.

His story, at least, has a happy ending: After spending more than a month in U.S. custody, the boy was reunited with his parents in New York with the help of lawyers working for Mexico's government,  a senior Mexican diplomat.

The boy was ultimately saved because he had his name and a ph number written on his shoes.




18. Invasion Is Unwise as Venezuela Isn't Grenada

Regarding Sen. Lindsey Graham's "Match Words With Actions in Venezuela, Mr. President" (oped, May 23): Sen. Graham argues that "the U.S. must be ing to intervene in Venezuela the way we did in Grenada  this nightmare in Venezuela must end for the good of the region and for the sake of democracy."

While I agree with Sen. Graham that the Venezuelan  have suffered enough, the administration should think twice before the U.S. helicopters descend on the Palacio de Miraflores in Caracas. What happens on day ?

Venezuela is a large, complex country politically, not a tiny island in the Caribbean. Juan Guaido, president of the National Assembly, has already tried a "popular uprising" and that failed. The Venezuelan military is indebted to President Nicolas Maduro for their perks and subsidies. They are not going to give them up easily. Political corruption is endemic in the system from the top down. The Cubans and others are embedded in Venezuela's security apparatus. The country has a long history of violent repression of popular uprisings by the military. What is going to happen when subsidies are removed from gasoline, food and other necessities? History would indicate that the streets of Caracas  be filled with violent protests. Does the U.S. want to be in the middle of that?

Stay the course and be patient. Let the Venezuelan  decide their route to a free democratic society.


The countries most affected by Venezuela's dysfunctional government are its neighbors: Colombia and Brazil, which have taken in millions of refugees. Let them invade Venezuela.

Although we "won" in Grenada, I suspect that the Cubans didn't view it as much of a loss. Venezuela, however, provides oil to Cuba, a resource for which the Cubans are likely to fight. Sen. Graham states that: "A free, democratic Venezuela has the potential to be a great economic and nationalsecurity partner to the U.S." Sure. And I have the potential to win the Powerball lottery.



Such a move with the Russians in the background could lead to a disastrous intervention that could escalate into a real catastrophe for the  of Venezuela. Moreover, it not only could lead to American service members losing their lives but the alienation of most Latin American countries from the U.S. Both the Lima Group and the Organization of American States have resolutely voted against foreign intervention in Venezuela.

It should be noted that the U.S. considered seriously intervening in Venezuela, in 1904 and in 1917 Presidents Theodore Roosevelt and Woodrow Wilson, respectively, decided against intervention because the country was too large to secure militarily, which is the main reason the Venezuelan situation shouldn't be compared with Grenada's.





19. Venezuelan Deserters Set For Long Stay  WSJ


CÚCUTA, Colombia  When Gabriel Pérez fled for this Colombian border city after defecting from Venezuela's military, he thought he and hundreds of other military deserters would soon launch an incursion to topple the autocrat back home.

That isn't how things worked out. Three months later, he is still in Colombia and is being told if he wants to stay, he had better get a job.

"We didn't come to build a life here in Colombia. We came to defend Venezuela,"  Mr. Pérez, a 28yearold former sergeant in Venezuela's National Guard. "We thought they were going to have a plan for us to return."

About 1,400 former Venezuelan state security officers are living in hotels in Cúcuta at the expense of the Colombian government, which, along with the U.S., is  of the main supporters of Venezuela's opposition.

The first deserters began arriving in February, when opposition leaders launched an illfated plan to get the military to break with President Nicolás Maduro by disobeying orders to block humanitarian aid. While the plan failed to spark a mutiny, the soldiers who fled to Colombia were praised by the opposition as brave heroes. In Washington, they were held up as evidence of the growing cracks in the armed forces' support for Mr. Maduro, as deserters recounted going hungry, living off rice, beans and arepas, the Venezuelan cornbread.

Now, many of the soldiers in Cúcuta feel let down, both by the opposition, and by Colombia and the U.S. Though no such promises were given, they thought they would become the Venezuelanversion of the Contras, the U.S.backed rebel force that launched incursions against Nicaragua's leftist government in the 1980s from Honduras during Central America's bloody civil wars.

The State Department declined to comment, and opposition figures didn't respond to requests for comment. Colombian President Iván Duque   week that a military intervention wasn't the solution to Venezuela's crisis.

The idea of arming the soldiers and sending them back into Venezuela was spurred on by opposition hardliners. Among them was a former highranking Venezuelan officer who envisid opposition leader Juan Guaidó providing authorization to arm about 1,000 men who would train in Colombia and Brazil and sneak into Venezuela to overthrow Mr. Maduro.

U.S. and Colombian officials concerned about sparking a regional conflict quickly quashed the idea. Likewise, Colombian officials opposed soldiers crossing back into Venezuela on April 30, when Mr. Guaidó called for an uprising that quickly fizzled out.

"What we want to do doesn't have Duque's endorsement," the former highranking officer . The former officer  he still believes the use of force is the only way to unseat Mr. Maduro.

The former soldiers now ponder what to do in a country where they don't want to live. Instead of preparing for battle, they spend their days in this city of about 700,000 lounging around hotel rooms watching TV to escape the city's broiling heat. At night, some play soccer while others discuss the latest news from back home.

They grumble that Venezuela's opposition now ignores them, fueling criticism that Mr. Maduro's foes and their international allies missed an opportunity to show members of Venezuela's armed forces that they would be treated well if they abandd the regime.

Colombia's government, struggling with a surge of Venezuelan migrants estimated at 1.2 million, is irritated that it was left to pay the growing bill. Officials told the Venezuelan deserters recently that they could take a time payment of $120 and leave Colombia for Ecuador, Peru or another country. Otherwise they would get $75 a month over the next three months plus a residency permit allowing them to stay in Colombia and work.

"We've made an exception for them because they're a special group,"  Felipe Muñoz, a Colombian official who is in charge of overseeing the border region. "These are benefits that no other migrant has in Colombia."

Mr. Muñoz says Colombia's government is currently paying about $12,000 a day for the hotel bills for the former Venezuelan soldiers in Cúcuta until they get residency permits that allow them to work.

The Venezuelan government, meanwhile, has used the ordeal in Cúcuta for propaganda purposes. Venezuela's staterun media recently showed soldiers being evicted from their hotels with their families, though the circumstances couldn't be determined.

The opposition was initially upbeat about the arrival of the soldiers in Cúcuta. The soldiers referred to Mr. Guaidó as their commander, while he applauded their "courage and patriotic spirit."

"Together we'll achieve freedom and rescue Venezuela,"  Mr. Guaidó as he met with the first group of deserters.

More recently, Mr. Guaidó's ambassador in Colombia, Humberto Calderón, told the deserters that they had no choice but to take  of Colombia's offers. In a meeting with some soldiers, he added that "no  ordered you to leave the country," according to the deserters.

Orlando, a 35yearold army sergeant, trekked across remote jungle paths into Colombia after hearing that Mr. Guaidó met with other deserters, believing the opposition would form an army. He was itching to head back to Venezuela on April 30 to support Mr. Guaidó's call for an uprising.

"We wanted to cross into Venezuela to see if we could finally liberate our country, but we had no  to support us. We can't cross over with rocks," he . "It hasn't turned out as we'd hoped."

The Venezuelan officers in Cúcuta say there is no way they can go back to Venezuela now, fearing retribution for themselves and their families for abandoning Mr. Maduro. Mr. Pérez, the former sergeant,  the three months of support won't cover expenses for his wife and  young children, whom he brought here. He is trying to make extra my by selling water on the street.

"We now feel abandd because they haven't provided the support that we wanted," he  of the Venezuelan opposition.

Javier Pérez, his 22yearold brother, a former National Guard sergeant,  they fear they  be jailed if they return to Venezuela. He is now thinking of bringing his pregnant wife to Cúcuta while he starts a small operation selling hot dogs on the street.

"We don't have enough my for anything," he . "The only option is to work here."


20.

Venezuela Negotiators Agree to New Round of Talks; U.S. says it supports Oslo talks if they lead to the ouster of Nicolás Maduro and free elections

Both sides of Venezuela's political divide agreed to hold a new round of negotiations, Norway's foreign ministry  Saturday, as Oslo looks to mediate a solution to the South American nation's political standoff and humanitarian crisis.

Representatives of authoritarian leader Nicolás Maduro and his rival, Juan Guaidó, who is backed by the U.S.[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/tensofthousandsprotestvenezuelanpresidentmaduro11548264274] and more than 50 other nations as Venezuela's legitimate president, are slated to meet in Oslo next week, according to Norway's Ministry of Foreign Affairs. "Norway commends the parties for their efforts and appreciates their disposition," the ministry  in a statement.

The negotiations come after both sides met separately with Norwegian mediators earlier this month for a preliminary round of talks held at Oslo's invitation. Norway, which has a long record of mediating peace processes from Colombia to Sri Lanka to the Philippines, has offered to help broker an end to a debilitating crisis that has brought Venezuela, once Latin America's most prosperous nation, to financial ruin, spreading hunger and a mass exodus of millions of refugees to neighboring countries.

Related

 Venezuela's Opposition Came Close to Ousting the President—but the Plan Fell Apart[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/howplantooustvenezuelanleaderfellapart11556926683] (May 3)

Venezuela's Information Ministry didn't immediately respond to a request for comment. Mr. Guaidó, speaking at a rally in the western town of Carora on Saturday, told his supporters he would send a delegation to Norway and insisted that his side would hold firm on its demand for a transfer of power that paves the way to presidential elections.

"As we have repeatedly stated, we believe the only thing to negotiate with Nicolás Maduro is the conditions of his departure," U.S. State Department spokeswoman Morgan Ortagus . "We hope the talks in Oslo  focus on that objective, and if they do, we hope progress  be possible."

Norway's effort comes after a series of failed negotiations in recent years between the opposition and Mr. Maduro, whose detractors accuse him of using talks to divide rivals and buy time.

Publicly, Mr. Maduro has supported Norwayfacilitated talks. But the leader, who says he is the victim of a U.S.led effort to overthrow his leftist government, has dismissed any notion of ceding power. His May 2018 reelection was boycotted by the opposition and was widely deemed a sham, opening his government to intensifying international sanctions.

In January, Mr. Guaidó, as the head of the national assembly, invoked the constitution and took an oath as interim president in a direct challenge to Mr. Maduro. But numerous street demonstrations
 






1. 
20km walk for education


Gladys Sida, 20 years, a South Sudanese residing in village 9 in Imvepi Settlement says she walks 20km to access secondary education in Imvepi Secondary school.

Imvepi secondary school is the only secondary school in Imvepi settlement that has a vast area and all those undergoing secondary education including locals and Refugees access education from the school.

Sida who is a single mother of  child  her child is very weak and took time for him to walk a reason organizations and Oxfam came to her aid and gave financial support.

She received Sh500,000 from  Vision under child protection and another Sh115,000 from Oxfam under Water Sanitation and Hygiene WASH. South Sudanese Refugees with Special Needs receiving my in Imvepi Settlement. Gladys Sida benefited from the support as a single mother to her child. Photo By Robert Ariaka.

Narrating her story to New Vision, Sida says, she leaves her child home under the care of a neighbor and walks 20kms daily from Monday to Friday to access secondary education in Imvepi SS.

According to Sida, the threeyearold child needed special attention and basic needs for sanitation, but she lacked my to procure the items.

She lacked Jericans, basins, and soap, but the support has boosted her capacity to acquire the items. she used part of the my from  Vision to treat her child who is now able to walk, talk, ran around and play with friends.

As a single mother, Sida  the father of the child abandd her the time she conceived but she took a decision to raise the child al and went back to school.

I walk 20kms every day from point H up to point E in the refugee settlement. I wake up at 6:00 am and walk to Imvepi SS to reach in time” Sida .

My main challenge is when it rains; I remain home until the rain stops, then resort to doing other things. Imvepi refugee settlement only has  secondary school.

She appeals to partner organizations to construct a secondary school at point J in villages 1,3,4,5 all in z.1 to avoid walking long distance to point E in z 3.

If I have my, I leave with the neighbor to take care of my child and if there is flour, I give to my neighbor to prepare food for my child, while I go to school,” Sida .

Sida's parents reside in Koboko district but because of the cost of school fees, her parents cannot help her, a reason she decided to settle in Imvepi refugee settlement and raise her own school fees through making bricks, toilet slabs, and liquid soap.

Sida spends six hours in school from 9:00am to 4:00pm. From Yei River state in South Sudan, Sida says she speaks Bari from a tribe called Pojulu.

She gets 24kgs of maize, four cups of cooking oil, 10 cups of beans and 5.6kgs of salt from the  Food Program food distribution project.

Sida arrived in Uganda on February 23, 2016, as a refugee. I immediately disclosed my challenges at the reception center that attracted  Vision to support me and my child. They constructed a house for me and my child”.

Sida who benefited as a vulnerable refugee woman because of her child advises other vulnerable refugees to open up and share their challenges. she  Action Aid trained her to make toilet slabs and she is paid Sh18,000 per slab per day.

In a group of 10 , Sida and her friends are able to raise my from making toilet slabs in the refugee settlement and each member gets paid on the same rate of Sh18,000 per day.

Besides slab making, Sida lay bricks and sales to Norwegian Refugee Council to build houses for other vulnerable persons. She sales each unburnt brick at Sh200.

She has been able to save my to pay her school fees at Imvepi secondary School in the Imvepi refugee settlement.

I pay Sh20,000 as school fees. Other costs are offset by Windle Trust that supports education in the refugee settlement” Sida narrates.





2. Death toll from tribal clashes in Sudan's Darfur rises to 36


Sporadic tribal clashes between Arabs and nonArabs continued Tuesday in Sudan’s West Darfur province, as the death toll climbed to at least three dozen , some of them burned to death, according to a senior health official and a spokesman for a local aid group working in the area.

Some of the 36 dead were children and women,  the official who works in the main hospital in the province. He  that around 60 others were wounded, and that 49 of them were taken to the capital, Khartoum for treatment.

The official spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to brief the media.

The clashes, which erupted over the weekend, pose a challenge to efforts by Sudan's transitional government to end decadeslong rebellions in areas like Darfur. Rebel groups from Darfur have now suspended their peace talks with the government in response to the tribal clashes and called for an investigation.

Sudan is on a fragile path to democracy after a popular uprising led the military to overthrow longtime autocratic President Omar alBashir in April. A militarycivilian government now rules the country.  if its key priorities has been ending the insurgencies in Sudan’s farflung provinces in order to slash military spending, which takes up much of the national budget.

Adam Regal, a spokesman for a local organization that helps run refugee camps in the area,  looting and destruction of property by militias took place in at least three refugee camps in the town of Genena.

He shared footage showing burned properties to the ground, as well as graphic images of burned bodies and wounded  with bloodstained clothes. His group put the toll at 41 dead and more than 100 wounded.

Sudan's ruling Sovereign Council  Monday they would deploy “sufficient” troops to the region to help contain the deadly clashes, which grew out of a skirmish between  ,  of whom, an Arab, was stabbed to death.

Activists and residents  the local government's nightly curfew was not being followed, and that sporadic clashes in Genena reported earlier Tuesday.

 Genena residents told The Associated Press that militias, mostly Arabs, roamed the streets in pickup trucks with mounted machine guns. By Tuesday evening, the violence was subdued amid heavy deployment of troops, enabling families to bury the dead and brought the wounded to hospitals.The residents spoke on condition of anonymity for fear of reprisals.

Regal accused Sudan's paramilitary Rapid Support Forces of intervening in the fighting on the side of the Arab forces.

Gen. Mohammed Hamdan Dagalo, deputy head of the Sovereign Council, commands the paramilitary group, which grew out of the notorious Janjaweed militias.

Rights groups say the RSF had, over the  decade, burned villages and raped and killed civilians during a series of counterinsurgency campaigns.

The Sudanese government and a rebel faction signed a peace deal  week. It was hoped that that deal could could pave the way for peace agreements with more rebel groups.

In this Sunday, Dec. 29, 2019 photo, residents of a refugee camp gather around the burned remains of makeshift structures, in Genena, Sudan. A Sudanese aid group says sporadic tribal clashes between Arabs and nonArabs are continuing in Sudan’s West Darfur province. Adam Regal, a spokesman for the aid group,  Tuesday that the death toll has climbed to least  dozen , including children. He says some of those killed were burned to death. (Organization for the General Coordination of Camps for Displaced and Refugees via AP) | FILE  In this June 15, 2019 file photo, Gen. Mohammed Hamdan Dagalo, the deputy head of the military council, salutes during a rally, in Galawee, northern Sudan. Sudan’s transitional authorities and a rebel faction reached a peace deal, part of government efforts to end the country’s decadeslong civil wars. The government  it signed the deal Tuesday, Dec. 24, 2019, with a faction of the Sudan Revolutionary Front in South Sudan's capital, Juba. The deal could pave the way for other peace agreements with more factions, as well as other rebel groups. (AP Photo, File) | Un grupo de personas festejan el primer aniversario de las protestas que derivaron en el derrocamiento del expresidente Omar alBashir, en Jartum, Sudán, el jueves 19 de noviembre de 2019. (AP Foto)



3.
The humanitarian news you couldn't get enough of in 2019


1. Ten humanitarian crises and trends to watch in 2019

The list of 10 crises and trends we identified as most likely to shape our coverage  and the aid sector  in 2019 included climate displacement, Ethiopia's gamble on reforms, and the calculus of politics and peace in the Democratic Republic of Congo and South Sudan. For a look at how it had all played out by midyear, check out our 10 crises update.

2. Ethiopia coverage

Ethiopia, in the first full year of Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed's government, was among our top 10 crises to watch for 2019. We weren't the only s watching: our coverage of Ethiopia drew consistently high numbers of readers throughout the year, long before Tshirts of Abiy wearing his Nobel Peace Prize medal began appearing on the streets of Addis Ababa in October. Here's a selection of our coverage:

Power shift creates new tensions and Tigrayan fears in Ethiopia

Disagreements over land and resources between the 80 different ethnic groups in Ethiopia have often led to violence and mass displacement, and the fast and unprecedented shift of power led by reformist Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed heightened that strain.

Eritrean refugees defy border closures only to find hardship in Ethiopia

Longdormant border crossings reopened with fanfare between Eritrea and Ethiopia as a symbol of warming relations in 2018 were all closed by October 2019, but that didn't stop a steady flow of Eritrean refugees fleeing across the heavily militarised frontier.

Ethiopia's neglected crisis: No easy way home for doubly displaced Gedeos

A notsomerrygoround of forced evictions by groups of armed young men and governmentpressured returns left tens of thousands of ethnic Gedeos trapped in dire conditions in makeshift shelters across the Oromia region of southern Ethiopia. They number among the country's 2.4 to three million internally displaced.

3. New UN deal with data mining firm Palantir raises protection concerns

When the UN's  Food Programme and CIAlinked software firm Palantir announced a new partnership of free support worth $45 million, with the aim of helping WFP pool its enormous amounts of data and find costsaving efficiencies, critics raised alarms, saying the deal could put 'highly sensitive' data about millions of food aid recipients at risk.

4. Why you don't want to be a Venezuelan woman right now

From murder to maternal mortality, from forced sex work to being sexually abused in prison, here's our look at how Venezuelan women pay a particularly high price to survive in the midst of the oilrich South American country's long and downward spiral.

5. Drought in Africa leaves 45 million in need across 14 countries

Failed rains across eastern Africa, southern Africa, and the Horn of Africa brought another dire season for farmers, increasing food prices and driving up the aid needs of tens of millions of already vulnerable  across the three regions.

6. Investigation: Blunders in Central African Republic sex abuse probe detailed in internal UN review

When The New Humanitarian visited the town of Dekoa in Central African Republic in 2018 to investigate the situation of women and girls who had brought allegations of rape, sexual abuse, and exploitation against UN peacekeepers from Burundi and Gabon in 201516, few if any of the alleged victims knew the status of their claims. In October 2019, TNH obtained an internal UN draft report that revealed a litany of mistakes made by investigators that may explain why so many of the cases have been dismissed and why, according to UN data, there hasn't been a single prosecution.

7. Investigation: UN probe finds Sudan staff member solicited bribes from refugees

A TNH investigation in May 2018 detailed allegations of widespread corruption and exploitation of refugees involving UNHCR staff in Khartoum who were part of the resettlement operations. In August 2019, TNH reported that an internal UN refugee agency investigation into those allegations determined that a staff member had abused their power by soliciting bribes from refugees.

8. Exclusive: Key donors freeze Uganda refugee aid after UN mismanagement scandal

Germany and the UK's Department for International Development, or DFID, froze funding to UNHCR Uganda after becoming aware of issues flagged by TNH in a November 2018 UN audit report. The report found that UNHCR critically mismanaged donor funds in Uganda in 20162017. Uganda is the largest refugeehosting nation in Africa, catering to more than 1.2 million refugees, the vast majority of whom have fled conflict in neighbouring South Sudan and the Democratic Republic of Congo.

9. Indian Ocean Dipole spells flood danger for East Africa

Beginning in October, hundreds of thousands of  in East Africa were affected by heavy rains and floods linked to recordbreaking temperature changes in the Indian Ocean. The culprit? The Indian Ocean Dipole. Don't worry, TNH explains it all in this piece.

10. Exclusive: Oxfam faces $160 million legal threat over Palestine aid project

Oxfam faced a counterterror claim in a New York court. The case, brought by a proIsrael lawyer and activist, alleges that the NGO contravened US law in its work in the Palestinian territory of Gaza. The case is now likely to be dropped, after the US government stepped in and the activist moved for dismissal on 18 December.




4. THE NEEDIEST CASES FUND

As violence broke out in South Sudan, Esther Meling left with her family, some clothes and  pans. In Uganda, she found help starting over.

KAMPALA, Uganda  Esther Meling fled her neighborhood in South Sudan with  of her 4yearold twins on her back and the other on her chest.

She had heard a sound unknown to her  gunshots  and looked outside her home in the capital, Juba, to see  crying and running with their children.

That day in December 2013, she gathered her four children and  sisters. They managed to grab some clothes and  sauce pans as attackers struck.

Running as fast as they could, they passed dead bodies, including those of a neighboring family. Ms. Meling's husband was at work, and her mother lived elsewhere with Ms. Meling's other  sisters and  half brothers; six years later, she still doesn't know what happened to them.

In the chaos, she followed the fleeing crowds, despite not knowing where they were heading. ''Where God is going to give us to stay, we're going to stay there,'' she told her sisters.

In the new nation that month, political tensions between South Sudan's leaders led to clashes in the streets of Juba. The crisis broadened into a societal conflict that propelled violence between ethnic groups, and led to a civil war that killed hundreds of thousands of .

Ms. Meling and her relatives are among the more than  million South Sudanese who fled to Uganda. They escaped on a truck with more than a hundred others. In an interview this month, Ms. Meling, now 34, recounted her escape and her fear that her mother and husband had died in the attacks. ''When I remember those things,'' she , ''I want to shed tears.''

As part of her resettlement in Uganda,  of the most welcoming countries in the  for refugees, Ms. Meling opened a small retail shop in central Kampala in 2017. She had operated her own food business in her home country, but in Uganda, she needed more skills to help her earn enough my to support her family as a single mother. So she signed up for training in baking and business skills from the International Rescue Committee,  of the seven organizations supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.

''Now I can make chapati,'' she , referring to a form of roti. ''I can bake cakes, cookies, doughnuts and the mandazi,'' or Swahili fried bread.

The path to resettlement was overwhelming.

With her  sisters, Ms. Meling, her older daughters, then 7 and 9, and the 4yearold twin girls arrived in Kampala the day after the attack and found themselves homeless. For three months they slept on gunny sacks at a business park in downtown Kampala. To get by, Ms. Meling washed dishes during the day and sold bananas at night. She had previously learned English, which came in handy in Uganda. Thanks to her interactions with customers, she picked up other languages spoken in the country, Luganda and Swahili.

Eventually, Ms. Meling and her sisters were hired as domestic workers at the home of a couple, who provided food and housing for them and the children. They stayed there for six months.

Then at a church  day in 2014, Ms. Meling met Joy Kiden, a fellow South Sudanese immigrant. Ms. Kiden, who is now a communitybased facilitator with the International Rescue Committee, advised Ms. Meling to join a women's savings and loan group so she could safely save her income and earn interest.

About  years later, Ms. Meling rented a home  a single room in the Nsambya suburb of central Kampala  for her extended family. The next year, Ms. Meling relied on her investment in the women's group to start a convenience store in the home, which served as a shop by day (selling items like soda, margarine and curry powder, as well as menstrual products) and a sleeping room at night.  year, she began using the space solely for her business and renting an adjacent room as a bedroom for the family.

Funded by grants, the International Rescue Committee's Economic Recovery and Development program helps refugees and local residents improve their economic wellbeing. Since the program's inception in 2017, more than 900  in Kampala have been trained in tailoring, hairdressing and baking.

''For us in Uganda, we realized that for urban , for you to succeed in accessing them, you need to have them in the group,''  Gerald Lee, an economic recovery and development manager for the organization. ''It is the group that brings that social aspect together.''

As a member of the women's group, Ms. Meling continues to receive business advice from the International Rescue Committee. She took training in baking, and the organization gave the group members an oven to share, which Ms. Meling uses for her new business.

After the training, Ms. Meling set up an extension to her business. Just outside her shop, she sells products like cookies, doughnuts, cakes, beans, pancakes, mandazi and chapati at a small stand. Doughnuts are the most popular among customers, and kabis  light, delicate cookies made using a South Sudanese recipe  are her favorite to make.

She now sells the cooked products at the stand, and supplies chapati to a local construction site and cookies at nearby schools for children to buy during breaks. A year in, her cooking enterprise is improving and sustaining her overall business. Ms. Meling has hired   to help her, and she lets them sleep in the shop room at night.

She hopes to expand her business and  day own land and other property. She would like to inspire others with her story of overcoming poverty through saving. Ms. Meling hasn't named her business yet, but if she does, it  be Together We Can.

''If it is not togetherness, I'd not have got this business,'' she .

The events in Juba six years ago still haunt Ms. Meling, now a mother of six. Even as she rebuilds her life in Kampala, she hopes to return to South Sudan someday with her children, ''so that they can see how their country is, how the country looks,'' she .

''South Sudan was a very good country,'' she . ''If peace came, I'd go back because it's my homeland. Even if that fear is there.''

Donations to The Neediest Cases Fund may be made online, or with a check or over the ph.



5.


New influx of S. Sudanese refugees into Gambella region: ECHO

 Localised clashes between armed forces in South Sudan's Maiwut State have led to a new influx of refugees into Ethiopia's Gambella region, a new report indicates. Transitional shelters for South Sudanese Refugees in Gambella, Ethiopia (IOM Photo)

The European Commission for Humanitarian Aid Operations, (ECHO)  since November, over 3600 refugees, including unaccompanied or separated minors, have arrived in Pamdong reception centre, which is now hosting around 4000 refugees.

Due to the refugee influx, the governmental Administration for Refugee & Returnee Affairs (ARRA) reportedly suspended the registration of new refugees, limiting their access to basic services.

Many newcomers do not want to be relocated in Assossa (Gure Shembole camp). This due to the remoteness of the camp, the ingness to remain closer to their places of origin, and the lack of social nerks and traditional livelihood opportunities for South Sudanese refugees,” ECHO  in the new report.

In addition, the current security situation is not conducive for road transfers from Gambella to Assossa, further noted the aid agency.

Meanwhile ECHO's partners have reportedly scaled up their humanitarian response in Pamdong, but major funding gaps remain across all sectors.

South Sudanese remain the largest refugee population in Ethiopia, totaling 320,957 persons as of end November 2019, with 32% of the refugee population living in Pamdong being children below 4 years.


6. 
Sudanese rebel leader interviewed on peace talks


Malik Agar is  of the northerners who sided with South Sudan during the civil war. He joined the late John Garang's Sudan 's Liberation Movement [SPLM]. After South Sudan's separation, he led the movement's northern branch which became known as the Sudan 's Liberation Movement  North [SPLMN]. That northern offshoot subsequently split into  wings each with the same name. The larger is headed by Abdel Aziz Adam alHilu from the area of Kauda, in the State of South Kordofan's Nuba Mountains. Agar heads the second wing.

Agar signed on 17 December an agreement with the Sudanese government on the delivery of humanitarian assistance to the areas under his movement's control in the southern Blue Nile. He considered this a step toward bolstering trust, paving the way for peace, and inspiring hope that peace is coming. "We started with humanitarian issues because they are related to the suffering of the citizens," he . "We want a peace that the citizens, the displaced, and the refugees can feel. If we manage to deliver food and medicine to them, we would have paved the way for peace and trustbuilding and created hope for an eventual settlement." According to Malik, the protocol signed with the Transitional Government covers other issues in addition to the delivery of humanitarian assistance. These include a cessation of hostilities and formation of committees to monitor implementation. "Humanitarian assistance  flow in from inside and outside Sudan, from organisations inside and outside the country," he .

In June 2017, the Nuba Mountains Liberation Council decided to appoint Abdel Aziz alHilu as SPLMN leader and remove Agar and secretarygeneral Yasir Arman. It decided to ban the  men from entering "the liberated areas" in the southern Blue Nile and South Kordofan. The ban was justified on the grounds that Agar and Arman refuse to include "selfdetermination rights" in the negotiations with the government even though it is what the Nuba Mountains  want. This sparked violent clashes in which dozens were killed because of ethnic mobilisation.

Since that time, the SPLMN split into  movements. "We exerted enormous efforts for a long time to avoid this before the split and when it started," Agar  in this connection. "We offered six initiatives to prevent the split, in addition to the initiatives proposed by South Sudan's President Salva Kiir Mayardit who mediated three meetings with alHilu, in addition to the initiatives made by friendly heads of state. But all failed, and we were unable to agree on a least common denominator. Brother Abdel Aziz is intransigent in his position which is not acceptable to us because we believe the demands he is insisting upon cannot be accomplished or reached."

Agar points out in this connection that the separation of South Sudan from Sudan did not solve the problem but on the contrary worsened it. "If the separation did not solve the problems of South Sudan but made them more intractable, how then can we consider selfdetermination as a mechanism for a solution?" he asks.

AlHilu is demanding selfdetermination for the Blue Nile and South Kordofan through a referendum on independence and the establishment of a secular state. But Agar says "we believe that granting selfdetermination to the  areas, on the pattern of the South Sudan experiment, would be futile and would prolong the war instead of bringing peace closer. There are objective reasons for this belief, including the fact that there is no geographical contiguity between the  areas and because there are Arab tribes there, unlike the situation in South Sudan. There are more differences between the  areas than those in South Sudan."

Concerning the demand for secularism, on which alHilu's wing is adamant in the negotiations with the government, Agar says "we are not against the secularism of the state, and I believe the overwhelming majority of the Sudanese support it. But at the same time we say that secularism and the relationship between the state and religion are not issues that concern the  areas only." He warns of the danger of bilateral discussions about secularism and the relationship between the state and religion. "This is an enormous burden and responsibility," he . "I believe it should be left to all the Sudanese  to decide at a subsequent constitutional conference that is held at the suitable time to enable everybody to make their opinions known," he .

Agar believes that alHilu's demand for the existence of  armies in Sudan  his own army and the Sudanese army  is not practical "because this would need resources the  territories do not possess, unlike the situation in South Sudan which owns 52 per cent of Sudan's petroleum resources and is thus able to finance its army. But in our case, we do not have  percent of the resources that would enable us to finance a huge army in the  territories while at the same time being able to finance development needs." He adds: "These are the issues we disagree about. He has not compromised on them and we have not agreed with him on them."

During the mediation by Salva Kiir to unify the  movements, which still adhere to the slogans and programmes of the mother SPLM in South Sudan, there were leaks about personal dimensions involved and that alHilu insists on excluding certain personalities in order to unify the movement. But Agar  "I know nothing about this, and you can refer back to the source that told you alHilu has reservations on the return of certain individuals." He added: "The problem is that alHilu is raising three issues we have not agreed about yet, but we do not have personal differences with him. I have known him since before the creation of the SPLM, and we were comrades in clandestine action before the SPLM was formed. We worked together for more than 30 years in the SPLM after it was formed, and I do not think that there are issues of contention between us as individuals. These are organisational issues, but the Sudanese like to personalise things although we do not have any personal considerations. Abdel Aziz is not an enemy of ours and he is a longtime comrade in struggle. He is not among our enemies, whether we agree with him or not, and we fully respect him."

Agar regrets the split that has turned the SPLMN into  delegations sitting separately to negotiate on the same issues. He says the split was pointless. "It has weakened us politically and militarily, and we had no need for it to begin with," he .

He says the agreement with the Transitional Government on the delivery of humanitarian aid applies to the areas his movement controls. "There are other areas alHilu controls in which we have no presence, so the agreement  not apply in these areas," he .

Civilian entities from central, northern, and eastern Sudan are participating in the Juba negotiations. They are not armed movements, and their introduction in the talks is considered by many as a distraction, particularly since their "demands" can be solved from Khartoum. But Agar believes their involvement contributes to solving Sudan's problem in a practical manner. "The presence of all the powers and all those that want to join in the negotiations would be important if we want to solve the Sudanese problem and the various outstanding demands, particularly those of the various regions" he . "These are equally important to the issues pertaining to war and peace. We should deal with them so that the signature of the protocols would mean that we have worked out a comprehensive agreement that addresses them."

A paradox is perhaps that most of the movements and groups negotiating in Juba came from Khartoum. A superficial questir may ask "Why are you negotiating in Juba if you came from Khartoum?" Agar answers: "Yes, all the movements were in Khartoum but did not conduct any negotiations there because the platform was set for Juba and the mediator is here in Juba. The delegations were in Khartoum to clear the atmosphere and build trust, not to negotiate."

Agar expressed optimism about reaching a peace agreement. He bases himself on the experience of negotiating with the regime of the deposed Omar alBashir. "In a brief period we have completed three documents, something we could not do in 17 negotiating rounds spanning seven years with the former regime," he . "This happened because we are negotiating this time as partners. The former regime used to bargain with us over 'some powers' so that it may keep all the powers to itself without any serious solutions to the issues of war and peace," he . "I believe the present government should deal with the causes of the war, not just powersharing."

Agar has not returned to Sudan since he left it in September 2011. But he  at the end of his interview with AlSharq alAwsat in Juba "I shall return to Khartoum when the circumstances are opportune. I can go anywhere, but I shall go to Khartoum."



7.
Utah County Commission votes to accept refugees PROVO  The Utah County...

(c) 2019 Deseret News Publishing Co.
Utah County Commission votes to accept refugees PROVO  The Utah County Commission followed the governor's lead by unanimously passing a resolution to clarify the county welcomes refugees. The commission signed a consent letter to accept refugees into Utah County Dec. 17, The Daily Herald reports. Utah Gov. Gary Herbert wrote an Oct. 24 letter to President Donald Trump saying the state would continue accepting and resettling refugees. Herbert's letter followed a Sept. 26 executive order issued by Trump that the federal government should resettle refugees only in jurisdictions where both state and local governments have consented to receive refugees under the State Department's Reception and Placement Program. Utah County Commissir Nathan Ivie believes the county has an obligation to help those fleeing hardship or persecution, he . "I don't feel it's morally responsible to turn our backs on the needy," Ivie .

Utah resettles refugees from around the , but has large communities of  from Somalia, Congo, Iraq, Sudan and South Sudan,  Asha Parekh, director of the refugee services division of the Utah Department of Workforce Services.  Associated Press S.L. ASKING FOR INPUT ON AFFORDABLE HOUSING SALT LAKE CITY  Residents are being asked to offer their ideas about how the city can encourage the construction of more affordable housing.  The city's Planning Division is gathering the input to guide modifications to the city's zoning ordinance, which may include an affordable housing overlay to the city's existing regulations.  While the city is experiencing tremendous residential growth, the availability of affordable housing is not keeping up with demand.  That fact was acknowledged by residents in a 2019 survey that ranked affordable housing as a top priority, and data from a housing plan adopted in 2017 shows that nearly half of all renters are burdened by the cost of housing and that there is an increasing gap between rental rates and incomes. The survey, which can be found at slc.gov/planning,  be open until Friday, Jan. 15. It should take no more than five minutes to complete.  Todd Curtis LEARN TO MANAGE PAIN AT 6WEEK WORSKHOP SPRINGVILLE  The Utah County Health Department is offering a free sixweek chronic pain selfmanagement workshop designed to help participants better manage pain. The classes  be held from 6 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. at the Springville Library, 45 S. Main, on Thursdays between Jan. 23 and Feb. 27. To register, log on to livingwell.utah.gov or call 8018517095.     



8. UN official: Past decade has seen human rights `backlash'

The past decade has seen a backlash against human rights on every front, especially the rights of women and the LGBT communities, according to a top U.N. human rights official.

Andrew Gilmour, the outgoing assistant secretarygeneral for human rights,  the regression of the past 10 years hasn’t equaled the advances that began in the late 1970s — but it is serious, widespread and regrettable.

He pointed to “populist authoritarian nationalists” in North America, South America, Europe and Asia, who he  are taking aim at the most vulnerable groups of society, including Myanmar’s Rohingya Muslims, Roma, and Mexican immigrants, as well as gays and women. He cited leaders who justify torture, the arrests and killing of journalists, the brutal repressions of demonstrations and “a whole closing of civil society space.”

“I never thought that we would start hearing the terms ‘concentration camps’ again,” Gilmour told The Associated Press in an exclusive interview. “And yet, in  countries of the  there’s a real question.”

He didn’t name them but appeared to be referring to China’s internment camps in western Xinjiang province, where an estimated 1 million members of the country's predominantly Muslim Uighur minority are being held; and detention centers on the United States' southern border, where mostly Central American migrants are being held while waiting to apply for asylum. Both countries strongly deny that concentration camplike conditions exist.

Gilmour is leaving the United Nations on Dec. 31 after a 30year career that has included posts in hot spots such as Iraq, South Sudan, Afghanistan, the Palestinian territories and West Africa. Before taking up his current post in 2016, he served for four years as director of political, peacekeeping, humanitarian and human rights affairs in former SecretaryGeneral Ban Kimoon’s office.

Despite his dim view of the past decade, Gilmour — a Briton who previously worked in politics and journalism —  he didn’t want to appear “relentlessly negative.”

“The progress of human rights is certainly not a linear progression, and we have seen that,” he . “There was definite progression from the late ’70s until the early years of this century. And we’ve now seen very much the countertendency of the  few years.”

Gilmour  human rights were worse during the Cold War between the U.S. and the former Soviet Union, “but there wasn't a pushback as there is now.”

He pointed to the fact that in the past eight years or so, many countries have adopted laws designed to restrict the funding and activities of nongovernmental organizations, especially human rights NGOs.

And he alleged that powerful U.N. member states stop human rights officials from speaking in the Security Council, while China and some other members “go to extraordinary lengths to prevent human rights defenders (from) entering the (U.N.) building even, let al participate in the meetings.”

In March 2018, for example, Russia used a procedural maneuver to block thenU.N. High Commissir for Human Rights Zeid Ra'ad alHussein from addressing a formal meeting of the Security Council, the U.N.’s most powerful body, Gilmour .

Zeid was able to deliver his hardhitting speech soon after, but only at a hurriedly organized informal council meeting where he decried "mindnumbing crimes" committed by all parties in Syria.

Gilmour cited the United States' refusal to authorize the council to hold a meeting on the human rights situation in North Korea, a move that effectively killed the idea.

The rights of women and gays are at stake, Gilmour . He  nationalist authoritarian populist leaders such as Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban, Russian President Vladimir Putin and Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, have made “derogatory comments” about both groups.

He  the U.S. is “aggressively pushing” back against women's reproductive rights both at home and abroad. The result, he , is that countries fearful of losing U.S. aid are cutting back their work on women’s rights.

Gilmour pointed out a report issued in September that cited 48 countries for punishing human rights defenders who have cooperated with the U.N.

"I feel that we really need to do more — everybody ... to defend those courageous defenders,” he .

Gilmour  the U.N. should stand up when it comes to major violations of international law and major violations of human rights, but “I have found it extremely difficult to do so in all circumstances.”

He  he was happy to hear that the new U.S. ambassador to the U.N., Kelly Craft, feels strongly about ensuring human rights.

“And I do hope that she  be gently and firmly held to that high standard," he .

Gilmour  that after his departure from the U.N, he  take a fellowship at Oxford’s All Souls College, where he  focus on the importance of uniting human rights and environmental rights groups.

“The human rights impact of climate change — it’s going to be so monumental,” he .

As he relinquishes his post, Gilmour  he is counting on younger generations to take up the mantle of human rights and fight for other causes aimed at improving the .

“What gives me hope as we start a new decade is that there  be a surge in youth activism that  help  to get courage, and to stand up for what they believe in,” he .

ABP Pvt. Ltd.

Document ABPTEL0020191229efct0001k




9. Drawing a line

An artist on her ongoing concerns pertaining to the fluidity of borders and its psychological impact on .

Over the  decadeandahalf, artist Reena Kallat has explored the fluidity of borders through her works, meditating on how history plays an integral role in shaping geography. The recent show, Blind Spots at Fort's Chemould Presscott Road, which concludes tomorrow, too, further explores the fluidity of contested boundaries through diverse media such as drawing, photography, sculpture, video and textbased installations. Over to the artist:

3 Questions with Reena Kallat

Blind Spots highlights your geopolitical concerns again. What draws you to the subject?

The line is an integral part of an artist's tool kit and yet when drawn across territory decides the fate of citizens on either side. While borders are a political construct, I've primarily been interested in the psychological social barriers between , more than the physical borders themselves.

My father was born in Lahore and had moved to the Indian side of Punjab prePartition, but his elder brother had to move during Partition. Growing up, I was fascinated by stories about the homes they lived in. Every three years, owing to my grandfather being a sessions court judge, they were posted to a new place. Yet, like with most families, there was silence around Partition. I began examining the impact of the legacy of Partition when my own experience of living in Mumbai changed with growing divisiveness between religious communities after the riots in 1992 and 2002.

In the 10part work Leaking Lines, besides the Radcliffe Line, Durand or the McMahon Line, I began looking at several others such as the MasonDixon line, the Blue Line and the Green Line. While on the  hand, we've blurred these lines through trade, technology and commerce, there is a strong reemergence of national borders amidst us today. I've worked with the electric wire as my medium, which is a transmitter of energy, a communication cable that connects us, and yet, here it morphs into barbed wire and fences.



The scale and ambition of the works are institutional and expressed through various mediums. Do you, as an artist, feel the medium, takes away from the matter?

The relationship of the viewer to the work and scale plays an important role in how the work gets received. I first began working with the Preamble to the Constitution of India in 2003, at a time when there was resistance towards north Indian migrants within the city of Mumbai and I wanted to remind ourselves of the foundational values and principles embedded within this most inclusive document.

In the multichannelled video installation Blind Spots, I'm revisiting the promise of democracy at a time when most are under strain. It reveals pairs of Snellen eye charts where  alphabet at a time appears as a fragmented recital metaphorically indicative of our partial, halftruths and fractured understanding of the whole. These are the preambles to the constitutions of countries such as USCuba, SudanSouth Sudan, BangladeshIndia, SerbiaCroatia, North and South Korea besides IndiaPakistan. As the founding promises within each pair of nationstates are revealed  alphabet at a time, the shared principles such as equality, justice, liberty common to both preambles morph into braillelike dots. The work invites audiences to reflect on how we seem to have lost sight of these common values and aspirations that are universal, which cut across the idea of sovereign nation states.

What inspired the title of the show?

Blind Spots is derived from the physiological blind spot in medical literature or the missing compnt in our vision. No   see exactly alike and the brain interpolates the blind spot based on other information to conceptually complete the gap and derive meaning. I think in these polarised times, where the gaps in our understanding of the truth is increasingly widening, I hope through art we can still find a space to reflect upon our shortcomings, our perceptual limitations in understanding other perspectives. If we tune into signals from the natural  they would remind us of our interconnectedness and interdependence on each other. The sound sculptures in Blind Spots are modelled on preradar acoustic devices built during the  wars to track sounds of enemy aircrafts, but I have replaced them with birdsongs. The idea is to subvert notions of war by having national birds singing to each other across borders.

Blind Spots ends on Dec 28. Attend an informal walkthrough and conversation with the artist at 4.30 pm at Chemould Prescott Road, Fort. Call: 2200 0211




10. HUMAN RIGHTS BACKLASH WORRIES TOP UN OFFICIAL

The past decade has seen a backlash against human rights on every front, especially the rights of women and the LGBTQI+ community, according to a top United Nations human rights official.

Andrew Gilmour, the outgoing assistant secretarygeneral for human rights, pointed to populist authoritarian nationalists in North and South America, Europe and Asia, who he  were taking aim at the most vulnerable groups of society, including Myanmar's Rohingya Muslims, Roma, and Mexican immigrants, as well as gays and women.

He cited leaders who justified torture, the arrests and killing of journalists, the brutal repression of demonstrations and "a whole closing of civil society space".

"I never thought that we would start hearing the terms 'concentration camps' again," Gilmour . "And yet, in  countries of the  there's a real question."

He didn't name them, but appeared to be referring to China's internment camps in western Xinjiang province, where an estimated 1 million members of the country's predominantly Muslim Uighur minority are being held; and detention centres on the United States' southern border, where mostly Central American migrants are being held while waiting to apply for asylum.

Gilmour is leaving the UN on December 31 after a 30year career that has included posts in hotspots such as Iraq, South Sudan, Afghanistan, the Palestinian Territories and West Africa.

Despite his dim view of the past decade, he  he didn't want to appear "relentlessly negative".

"The progress of human rights is certainly not a linear progression, and we have seen that," he . "There was definite progression from the late '70s until the early years of this century. And we've now seen very much the countertendency of the  few years."

He  many countries had adopted laws designed to restrict the funding and activities of non governmental organisations, especially human rights NGOs.

He alleged that powerful UN member states stopped human rights officials from speaking to the UN Security Council, while China and some other members "go to extraordinary lengths to prevent human rights defenders [from] entering the (UN) building even, let al participate in the meetings".

In March 2018, for example, Russia used a procedural manoeuvre to block thenUN High Commissir for Human Rights Zeid Ra'ad alHussein from addressing a formal meeting of the security council

Gilmour cited the US's refusal to authorise the council to hold a meeting on the human rights situation in North Korea, a move that effectively killed the idea.

The rights of women and gays were at stake, Gilmour . He  nationalist authoritarian populist leaders such as Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban, Russian President Vladimir Putin and Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan had made "derogatory comments" about both groups.

He  the US was "aggressively pushing" back against women's reproductive rights both at home and abroad. The result was that countries fearful of losing US aid were cutting back their work on women's rights.

Gilmour pointed out a report issued in September that cited 48 countries for punishing human rights defenders who had cooperated with the UN. "I feel that we really need to do more  everybody . . . to defend those courageous defenders."

Gilmour  the UN should stand up when it came to major violations of international law and major violations of human rights.

He  he was counting on younger generations to take up the mantle of human rights and fight for other causes aimed at improving the .

"What gives me hope as we start a new decade is that there  be a surge in youth activism that  help  to get courage, and to stand up for what they believe in."  AP




11. Sudan, Rebels Agree Plan to End Conflict in Darfur

Sudanese villagers walk in the wartorn town of Golo in the thickly forested mountainous area of Jebel Marra in central Darfur on June 19, 2017. (AFP) The Sudanese government and nine rebel groups on Saturday signed an agreement on a roadmap towards ending the bloody conflict in the Darfur region.

The deal outlines different issues the parties  need to negotiate during the latest round of talks in Juba.

"We believe this is an important step,"  Ahmed Mohamed, the chief negotiator on Darfur matters from the Sudan Revolutionary Front or SRF, a coalition of nine rebel groups involved in talks with the Sudanese government.

"This step no doubt  help the process to achieve a ing peace in Darfur and it  enable the transitional process in Sudan to move smoothly without hindrances," Mohamed told AFP.

Among the issues they agreed need to be tackled are the root causes of the conflict, the return of refugees and internally displaced , power sharing and the integration of rebel forces into the national army.

The deal states that the Sudanese government  address land issues, such as the destruction of property during the conflict.

Khartoum has been negotiating with different rebel groups in the capital of South Sudan for  weeks, in the latest round of efforts to end conflicts in Darfur, Blue Nile and South Kordofan.

Rebels in these areas fought bloody campaigns against marginalization by Khartoum under ousted president Omar alBashir.

The Darfur fighting broke out in 2003 when ethnic minority rebels took up arms against Bashir's government.

Human rights groups say Khartoum targeted suspected prorebel ethnic groups with a scorched earth policy, raping, killing, looting and burning villages.

Bashir, who is behind bars for corruption and awaiting trial on other charges, is wanted by the International Criminal Court in The Hague for his role in the conflict that left around 300,000  dead and 2.5 million displaced, according to the United Nations.

However, there is fresh hope for peace after Sudan's transitional government, led by Prime Minister Abdalla Hamdok, made peace in these areas a priority.

"We failed to achieve a ing peace for Darfur simply because the previous government was not ready to take strategic decisions to resolve the conflict in Darfur,"  Mohamed who has been involved in previous failed peace talks.

General Samsedine Kabashi, the top Sudanese government representative at the talks : "We are committed to ending all the problems in Darfur and ensuring that we restore peace and stability not only in Darfur but across all parts of the country."

The peace process began in August and mediators aim to reach a final deal by February 2020.



12. 
2019: A Year Of Political Turmoil, Upheaval ... And Hope

As we come to the end of 2019, it is time to review the year that was. It was in many ways a fairly tumultuous year in  affairs, but not greatly different from those that immediately preceded it. We continue to live in interesting, exciting and often depressing times.

The headlines were once again dominated by he who can truly be called the elephant in the room: Donald Trump. His ability to serially insult other leaders was once again much in evidence. His words served to undermine the solidarity of the Western alliance of nations. His kowtowing to dictators such as Russia's Vladimir Putin and North Korea's Kim Jong Un left a very bad taste in the mouths of many. His attempt to bribe the president of Ukraine into helping him demonize his Democratic oppnt Joe Biden brought his office into disrepute and resulted in the House of Representatives impeaching him. While it is unlikely that the Republicancontrolled Senate  vote to convict him, his presidency has already been badly tarred. It is very much to be hoped that he has been sufficiently damaged that American voters  show him the door in the 2020 presidential election.

The Brexit saga continued unabated throughout the year. When Prime Minister Theresa May resigned after having suffered three defeats in the House of Commons, she was succeeded by a mendacious populist in the form of Boris Johnson. He, too, went on to experience three parliamentary defeats, but he clung to power and called a general election. In a campaign notable for its nastiness and divisiveness, Johnson promised voters to "get Brexit d." He promised vast new investments in Britain's struggling National Health Service and a variety of other social services. But as The Economist noted in a recent article, "Mr. Johnson is in many ways the ideal politician for a posttruth age, because nobody expects him to keep his word. He exists in a  of usversusthem and of emotion rather than reason, a  in which cheering  up is more important than depressing them with facts." That such a person could win a commanding majority in the House of Commons is a depressing commentary on the current state of British politics.

But beyond the politics of the Brexit debate, there are the policy issues which are all too often ignored in the heat of battle. Apart from wanting to leave the European Union, what do the Brexiters want for the country and the future? There the answers are as muddled and confusing as the  putting them forward. As a commentator in the Globe and Mail noted following the announcement of the results of the election: "And so Britain is left with a driver very much in the driving seat, a powerful engine at his command, but with no particular destination in mind." This confusion  take a heavy toll on Britain's future international relations and on its place in the . It  mean that "getting Brexit d"  hardly be the final chapter in this dismal episode in Britain's history. We  no doubt be returning to it at the end of 2020.

The election of President Emmanuel Macron had been widely hailed as bringing on to the  scene a true champion of a liberal democratic order. Macron has lived up to much of his promise, but has run into some serious head winds. Domestically, his government was confronted by the oftenviolent protests of the socalled "gilets jaunes" movement, which went on for months on end. Macron is now facing mass demonstrations by the country's major labour unions, which are opposing his plans to reform France's pension regime. In foreign policy, he set the cat among the pigeons with  remarks he made late in the year. The first was that NATO was "brain dead." This was variously interpreted as a criticism of the United States and its failure to exercise leadership in the Alliance, and as yet another plug for his ambition to create a purely European defence alliance. His second remark was that the first priority of Western defence leaders should be terrorism rather than Russian adventurism. He even went so far as to suggest that the time had come for NATO to resume a political dialogue with the Kremlin. These ideas went over like the proverbial lead balloon with the Eastern European members of the Alliance. These comments, although disruptive, did have  redeeming result in the form of a decision by NATO to undertake an indepth review of its strategy and purposes.

Unfortunately, populists continued to make headway in other parts of Europe in 2019. Propnts of the Alternative for Germany achieved depressing results in a number of state elections. Populist parties continued to exercise power in Italy. And the populist governments in Poland and Hungary carried on with their programs of illiberal reform in the face of widespread public opposition. The governments of Italy, Poland and Hungary are testing the rules of the European Union more than they have ever been tested before. The European Union  be faced with many serious challenges in the year ahead, and Brexit  not necessarily be the most serious.

Beyond North America and Europe, the scene is, if anything, much darker. Bloody civil wars carried on unabated in Syria and Yemen, with catastrophic humanitarian results. The overthrow of  longserving presidents in Algeria and Sudan has left these countries in a state of political chaos. Widespread political unrest is the order of the day in Iran and Iraq, and the efforts of their governments to maintain order have resulted in the deaths and wounding of thousands of  at the hands of security forces. The governments of Egypt and Saudi Arabia have continued to brutally repress and imprison all of their political oppnts. And the latest pronouncements of Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu have made more remote than ever the prospects of a solution to the IsraeliPalestinian conflict. In short, in 2019 the Middle East remained  of the most cursed regions on earth.

The continent of Africa was only somewhat less grim. It nevertheless continued to experience a number of tragedies. The civil wars in the Democratic Republic of Congo, South Sudan and Somalia went on as before, claiming thousands of lives and creating intolerable situations for the civilian populations. Despite the best efforts of the United Nations, Mali remains the scene of Islamist extremist attacks and of more general ethnic rivalries. The extremists of Boko Haram and systemic mismanagement have contributed to making oilrich Nigeria  of the saddest countries on the continent. And a combination of bad weather conditions and horrendous government has driven most of the population of Zimbabwe to the brink of starvation. And those same weather conditions are adversely affecting the populations of several countries in Southern and Eastern Africa.

There was a bit of bad news emanating from Asia. There was no end in sight to the armed conflicts in Afghanistan. Pakistan was experiencing  of its frequent financial crises and was once again having to turn to the International Mtary Fund for a bailout. India's Hindu Nationalist government carried on with its campaign to transform the country into a Hindu state as opposed to the secular state created by its founders. Its clearly antiMuslim legislation on Kashmir and on citizenship has provoked widespread protests, many of which have turned violent. India's 200 million Muslims now live in fear of what may come next. Myanmar's Rohingya live in terror as 700,000 of them experience yet another year as refugees living in makeshift camps in Bangladesh. The citizens of Hong Kong and the Uighurs of northwest China continue to experience repression at the hands of the Chinese government.

To counteract all of these dismal developments, there were a few good news stories in 2019. The drawnout negotiations of the new U.S., Mexico and Canada trade agreement were finally brought to a successful conclusion and the agreement should be ratified in the new year. This outcome solidifies Chrystia Freeland's status as Canada's star cabinet minister. The end of the trial of SNCLavalin  allow the country to move forward from a particularly sad chapter in its political and economic history. What was perhaps the most exhilarating story of 2019 was the upsurge of young  around the  demanding action on climate change. Their forceful yet peaceful demonstrations gave the lie to the notion that the younger generation is apathetic. As exemplified by the young Swedish activist Greta Thunberg, they sent a powerful message to their elders that climate change had to be addressed urgently if the future of the planet is to be saved.

Finally, at home there was the Liberal victory in the October general election and the subsequent demise of Conservative leader Andrew Scheer, both of which are good news stories in my book.



13.
Migrants are facing ‘walls of indifference’, Pope warns

The Pope has warned that migrants fleeing injustice in the hope of finding a better life are being met with “walls of indifference” in his Christmas Day message.

Pope Francis offered a message of hope against the darkness “in human hearts” and in conflicts in large parts of the , from the Middle East to the Americas to Africa.

In his annual Christmas Day message, the Pope called for an easing of the crisis in Lebanon, social tensions in Iraq and the “grave humanitarian crisis” in Yemen.

Addressing tens of thousands of  gathered in St Peter’s Square, he noted that migrants around the  have been forced by injustice “to emigrate in the hope of a secure life”.

Instead of finding acceptance, migrants often face abuse, enslavement and torture in “inhumane detention camps” and death during their journeys, he .

And once they arrive in “places where they might have hoped for a dignified life” they “instead find themselves before walls of indifference”, the Pope warned.

In an extraordinary message, Pope Francis, along with  other religious leaders, urged the rival chiefs of South Sudan to maintain a pledge to form a coalition government early next year.

A peace deal to end a fiveyear civil war that has killed close to 400,000  was signed  year, but a November deadline to form a coalition government was extended to February as key aspects of the peace deal still need to be resolved.

The message, issued separately from the traditional papal Christmas address, was signed by the leader of the Church of England, Archbishop of Canterbury Justin Welby, and the Rev John Chalmers, exmoderator of the Church of Scotland.

Mr Welby used his Christmas Day sermon to reflect on the maltreatment of society’s most vulnerable, as well as the impact of violence at home and abroad, including the London Bridge terror attack  month.

He told worshippers at Canterbury Cathedral that darkness is a “monster that lies” before referring to the killings of 25yearold Jack Merritt and 23yearold Saskia Js by Usman Khan.



14. 
Pope Francis prays for Syria, Venezuela and 's migrants in Christmas message of hope against 'darkness in human hearts' as he leads global celebrations at the Vatican

 Pope Francis assured the faithful that God loves every  'even the worst of us'  following a year of scandals

 At the midnight mass he unveiled a statue of the newborn Jesus lying in a nativity scene at the foot of the altar

 Catholics across the  joined the Vatican in prayer, including at  of the churches bombed in Sri Lanka

The Pope today urged the  to let the light of Christmas pierce the 'darkness in human hearts' as he led Christian celebrations around the .

The 83yearold pontiff singled out conflicts in Venezuela, Ukraine and Syria as well as armed conflicts ravaging many African countries as he appealed for peace in troubled hotspots.

Francis delivered his Christmas Day message hours after assuring the faithful that God loves every  'even the worst of us'  following a year of scandals and opposition.

The pontiff led global celebrations as worshippers gathered around the  to celebrate the birth of Jesus, beginning in Bethlehem  night and continuing today in Sri Lanka where worshipers marked the first Christmas since the Easter Sunday terror attack.

The Pope offered a Christmas message of hope against darkness that cloaks conflicts and relationships in large parts of the  from the Middle East to the Americas to Africa.

He told tens of thousands of tourists, pilgrims and Romans gathered in St Peter's Square for the annual Christmas Day message that 'the light of Christ is greater' than the darkness 'in human hearts' and 'in economic, geopolitical and ecological conflicts'.

Francis was flanked by Cardinal Renato Raffaele Martino, president of the papal council for migrants, and Cardinal Konrad Krajewski, the pope's official almsgiver.

The pope cited the Syrian  'who still see no end to the hostilities that have rent their country over the  decade', as well as Israel, where Jesus 'was born as the saviour of mankind and where so many   struggling but not discouraged  still await a time of peace, security and prosperity'.

Francis called for an easing of the crisis in Lebanon, social tensions in Iraq and the 'grave humanitarian crisis' in Yemen.

He noted that a number of countries in the Americas 'are experiencing a time of social and political upheaval', citing 'the beloved Venezuelan , long tried by their political and social tensions'.

The pope noted migrants forced by injustice 'to emigrate in the hope of a secure life'.

Instead of finding acceptance, Francis , injustice continues along their journey, where they often face abuse, enslavement and torture in 'inhumane detention camps' and death during dangerous sea and desert crossings.

And once migrants arrive in 'places where they might have hoped for a dignified life' ... they 'instead find themselves before walls of indifference', he .

The pope offered prayers of hope for the  of Africa, including those in Congo 'torn by continuing conflicts' and the  of Burkina Faso, Mali, Niger and Nigeria, where  have been 'persecuted for their religious faith'.

And in an extraordinary message, Francis, along with  other religious leaders, urged the rival chiefs of South Sudan to maintain a pledge to form a coalition government early next year.

A peace deal to end a fiveyear civil war that has killed close to 400,000  was signed  year, but a November deadline to form a coalition government was extended to February as key aspects of the peace deal still need to be resolved.

'May Christ bring his light to the many children suffering from war and conflicts in the Middle East and in various countries of the ,' Francis  in his traditional message.

The Pope and Archbishop of Canterbury Justin Welby sent joint wishes of 'peace and prosperity' to South Sudan as negotiations faltered between the African country's government and rebels.

Typhoon Phanf meanwhile brought a wet, miserable and terrifying holiday season to the central Philippines, stranding tens of thousands of .

In France, Christmas was a gloomy affair as a crippling transport strike against pension reform was set to enter its fourth week, ruining the plans of many to gather with family and friends.

Notre Dame cathedral in Paris missed out on a Christmas mass for the first time since the French Revolution after the landmark was ravaged by a disastrous fire in April this year.

 night Francis processed down the center aisle of St Peter's Basilica late Tuesday and unveiled a statue of the newborn Jesus lying in a nativity scene at the foot of the altar.

Francis  the birth of Jesus, which Christians commemorate on Christmas Day, was a reminder of God's unconditional love for every, 'even the worst of us.'

'God does not love you because you think and act the right way,' he .

'You may have mistaken ideas, you may have made a complete mess of things, but the Lord continues to love you.'

At the same time though, he called for the faithful to allow themselves to be transformed by Jesus' 'crazy love' and to stop trying to change others.

'May we not wait for our neighbors to be good before we do good to them, for the church to be perfect before we love her, for others to respect us before we serve them. Let us begin with ourselves,' he .

Francis has frequently emphasized his call for 'personal conversion' in his reformminded papacy, believing that true reform cannot be imposed from on high, but discerned from within.

He has similarly denounced the 'holierthanthou' attitude of doctrinal and legal purists, who have chafed at his progressive openings to gays, divorcees and  on the margins.

Those critics have seized on the sexual abuse and financial scandals that have buffeted the papacy of the 83yearold Jesuit pope.

The scandals are likely to follow Francis into 2020, with developments in a corruption investigation involving hundreds of millions of dollars in donations to the Holy See and the release of a report on what the Vatican knew about exCardinal Theodore McCarrick, who was defrocked for sexually abusing adults and minors,

Francis' latenight Mass kicks off a busy few days for the pope, including a Christmas Day speech, noontime prayers, a New Year's Eve vigil and a Jan. 1 Mass.

This comes as pilgrims from around the  gathered in the biblical city of Bethlehem, revered by Christians as the birthplace of Jesus, to celebrate.

Thousands of Palestinians and foreigners converged on the 'little town' in the Israelioccupied West Bank, with festivities taking place in and around the Church of the Nativity.

Archbishop Pierbattista Pizzaballa, apostolic administrator of the Latin Patriarch of Jerusalem and the most senior Roman Catholic official in the Middle East, arrived from the holy city at the head of a procession.

Bethlehem is close to Jerusalem, but cut off from it by Israel's separation barrier.

After crossing through the wall, Pizzaballa  it was a difficult time but there was reason for 'hope'.

'We see in this period the weakness of politics, enormous economic problems, unemployment, problems in families,' he .

'On the other side, when I visit families, parishes, communities, I see a lot of commitment... for the future.

'Christmas is for us to celebrate the hope.'

In the square outside the church, a few thousand  watched in the winter sun as Palestinian scouts paraded to the sound of drums. A group of 20 New Zealanders sang carols in front of the 15metre Christmas tree.

As evening fell, crowds thinned, with the church closing to tourists ahead of midnight mass, which Pizzaballa was to lead.

Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas was expected to attend.

Andrea, a young Portuguese tourist, inspected her pictures from the grotto, taken shortly before the doors closed.

'We waited  hours for only a minute on site,' she .

The first church was built on the site of Jesus's birth in the fourth century, though it was replaced after a fire in the sixth century.

This year celebrations were bolstered by the return of a wooden fragment believed to be from the manger of Jesus.

Sent as a gift to Pope Theodore I in 640, the piece had been in Europe for more than 1,300 years before being returned  month, Francesco Patton, chief custodian for the Holy Land, .

'We venerate the relic because (it) reminds us of the mystery of incarnation, to the fact that the son of God was born of Mary in Bethlehem more than 2,000 years ago,' Patton told AFP at the time.

In the square by the church, Palestinian tourism minister Rula Maayah told AFP it had been a good year, with 3.5 million tourists visiting the city.

But fewer Christians from the Gaza Strip were in attendance than in previous years, as Israel had granted permits to just around 300 of the some 900  who applied,  Wadie Abunassar, an adviser to church leaders in the Holy Land.

The Palestinian territories of the West Bank and Gaza are separated by Israeli territory and crossing between them requires hardtoget permits.

Around the ,  were getting ready to ring in the Christmas festivities.

In Sri Lanka, worshippers attend the Christmas Eve midnight mass at St Anthony's Shrine at Kotahena in Colombo.

The church was the targeted in a series of suicide bombs in Sri Lanka on Easter Sunday this year.

Dramatic footage showed a vehicle erupting into a fireball around 50 metres from church.

On April 21, seven suicide bombers launched the attacks killing 290  and injuring more than 500.

Bs ripped through landmarks around the capital Colombo, and on Sri Lanka's east coast, targeting Christians, hotel guests and foreign tourists.

In Lithuania, Christians gathered to watch a procession before attending a Christmas mass at the Cathedral Basilica in Vilnius.

In Iraq a priest lead a Christmas Eve service at the church of Um al Noor in Arbil, the northern Iraqi city and capital of the autonomous Kurdish region.

In the central Philippines, where Christmas is widely celebrated among the country's Catholics, thousands of  were warned to leave their homes as a severe tropical storm approached.






15. Nuba Refugees in South Sudan Forced to Return Home

Dire humanitarian conditions in Yida Refugee Camp in South Sudan has forced hundreds of refugees from the Nuba Mountains to return to South Kordofan.

Speaking to Radio Dabanga, an activist reported that relief organisations stopped providing aid since October. "This made the situation for the refugees impossible," he .

" month, they started leaving Yida camp, most of them on foot, returning to their home areas. Now it seems they are all leaving. This Friday, 15 lorries loaded with families left for the Nuba Mountains."

The source  that the long journey back to the Nuba Mountains is difficult, particularly for the disabled and elderly . "The refugees are weak already, and they are lacking clean drinking water and food on the way home."

He appealed to humanitarian aid organisations to intervene and "save the lives of the Nuba refugees".

Radio Dabanga's editorial independence means that we can continue to provide factual updates about political developments to Sudanese and international actors, educate  about how to avoid outbreaks of infectious diseases, and provide a window to the  for those in all corners of Sudan. Support Radio Dabanga for as little as ?2.50, the equivalent of a cup of coffee.




16.Darfur Victims to Participate in Sudanese Peace Talks

On Thursday, the government delegation and the rebels' Darfur track team agreed to invite representatives of the millions of displaced  in Darfur to take part in the peace negotiations.

Members of the government delegation and the Sudan Revolutionary Front rebel alliance discussed the Darfur track in Juba, capital of South Sudan, on Thursday.

In a press statement after the meeting, the spokesman for the South Sudanese mediation team, Minister of Energy and Dams Dhieu Mathok, reported that Darfuri refugees and displaced   participate in the Juba negotiations.

The  parties agreed to hold a conference in El Fasher, capital of North Darfur, on January 10, in which 200 representatives  be selected to attend the peace talks in Juba. 50 of them  actively participate in the negotiations.

Another general conference  be organised in Chad, for Darfuri refugees in Chad and in the other neighbouring countries, to determine their representatives in the Juba negotiations.

Previously, the government delegations and the SRFDarfur Track agreed to involve Darfuri stakeholders from the Darfuri in the negotiations and to form a joint committee to determine the percentage of participation and its phase.

The government delegation and rebel groups on the eastern Sudan track agreed earlier to invite community leaders to the negotiations. On Wednesday, 30 native administration leaders were flown in with a presidential aircraft from eastern Sudan.

The Juba Declaration of Principles signed by the government and the armed movements on September 12, stipulates that the root causes for the armed struggle and civil wars in Sudan must be addressed.

Radio Dabanga's editorial independence means that we can continue to provide factual updates about political developments to Sudanese and international actors, educate  about how to avoid outbreaks of infectious diseases, and provide a window to the  for those in all corners of Sudan. Support Radio Dabanga for as little as ?2.50, the equivalent of a cup of coffee.



17.

As war in South Sudan drags on, U.S. frustrations mount, and relations fray


For years, South Sudan's warring leaders have delayed putting an end to their country's brutal conflict, scuttling peace talks and blowing past deadlines as the death toll mounted and a refugee crisis caused upheaval across the region.

The perpetual delays are straining the young country's close relationship with the United States, which this week announced sanctions on  top South Sudanese officials, accusing them of prolonging the country's deadly conflict and obstructing the path to peace. South Sudan responded with its own diplomatic jab, recalling its ambassador to Washington 'for consultations.'

South Sudan's envoy, Philip Jada,  return to Juba this weekend, he  in a ph interview.

'The timing of the sanctions took me by surprise,' Jada , adding that he does not expect to stay away from Washington for long. 'We have a very good engagement, and then they implement sanctions again, so we just start wondering why, if you're in dialogue, do you continue to give punitive measures?'

This week's sanctions follow other measures the United States has taken to express its discontent with the cycle of violence and political disputes. In recent weeks, it briefly recalled its ambassador to Juba, threatened visa restrictions on individuals who jeopardize the peace process and slapped sanctions on a number of highranking officials.

U.S. officials helped guide South Sudan to independence from Sudan in 2011 after decades of war, but infighting between the country's  leaders, President Salva Kiir and thenVice President Riek Machar, sparked a new civil war in 2013. The conflict divided the nation along ethnic lines and unleashed a wave of suffering that has dragged on for six years.

The  men have failed many attempts to reach and implement peace agreements. They finally signed an agreement at the end of 2018 but have missed multiple deadlines to form a unity government, announcing in November that they need until midFebruary.

It was after missing that deadline that the State Department temporarily recalled its ambassador, Thomas Hushek, from Juba and announced that the United States plans to reevaluate its relationship.

On Friday, the State Department  in an emailed statement that Hushek has met Kiir and South Sudan's foreign minister since he returned to Juba on Dec.12 and expects 'those communication channels to remain open.' But Kiir and Machar's continued inability to demonstrate a ingness to compromise 'raises questions whether either man is fit to lead the country to a political resolution of the conflict,' the statement read.

The sanctions this week came shortly after the U.S. Treasury announced another round of sanctions on five other South Sudanese officials earlier this month, calling them 'responsible for the abduction and likely murder' of  South Sudanese human rights activists who disappeared in Kenya in January 2017. On Dec. 12, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo warned that visa restrictions could be implemented against individuals who obstruct the peace process.

Jada  that his government is concerned by the sanctions against South Sudanese officials but that his recall to Juba is in direct response to this week's sanctions against Kuol Manyang Juuk, the minister of defense and veterans affairs, and Martin Elia Lomuro, the minister of cabinet affairs.

'The defense minister is very crucial in the peace agreement,' Jada . 'Imposing sanctions at this time is not helpful in implementing the peace agreement.'

Payton Knopf, an adviser to the Africa program at the United States Institute of Peace who previously served on the U.N. Panel of Experts for South Sudan,  the U.S. ambassador to Juba's temporary recall and subsequent return is just  example of an 'incoherent' U.S. policy in South Sudan.

The State Department has already raised concerns over Kiir's leadership, Knopf , 'so why is it that we continue to convey legitimacy on his government by having an ambassador there?'

The war in South Sudan has displaced millions of , many of whom are now refugees in neighboring countries. A State Departmentfunded study released  year estimated that the war had left at least 382,000  dead.

Earlier this year, in  of the many international bids to put an end to the conflict, Pope Francis hosted Kiir and Machar for a spiritual retreat, during which he bent down and kissed each man's feet, asking them to 'stay in peace.' It was an unusual move for the pontiff, who   month that he hopes to visit the predominantly Christian country next year.



18.

Citizenship Law: Providing no relief to the majority of asylum seekers

People fleeing Syria, Afghanistan and South Sudan top the list of refugees globally. Refugees from Myanmar are the fourth largest group. There are nearly 10,000 Indian refugees across the , and nearly 52,000 Indians awaiting decision on their asylum applications.Majority of the refugees in India come from three countries that are not included in the Citizenship (Amendment) Act — China, Sri Lanka and Myanmar. Meanwhile, more and more Indians are seeking asylum in other countries. Proportionate to its population, India’s refugee burden is low. Pakistan, meanwhile, has the ’s second highest number of refugees. 72919565 72919572 72919575 72919584 72919591 72919597 72919602 72919608Note: The data refers to refugees and asylum seekers only, and not immigrants, legal or illegal.

The United Nations High Commissir for Refugees (UNHCR) defines a refugee as some who has been forced to flee his or her country because of persecution, war or violence, and an asylum seeker as  who has made this claim but has yet to be granted or denied refugee status. The actual numbers are likely to be higher since India has not signed the Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees. The writer is a Chennaibased journalist.



19.

$270m required to prevent famine in S. Sudan: WFP
SudanTribube.com
At least $270 million is urgently needed to avert a looming famine in South Sudan where about 5.5 million  could face starvation next year, the United Nations . Sudanese refugees in a refugees camp in Maban, South Sudan (WFP Photo)

David Beasley,  Food Programme's (WFP) Executive Director disclosed that the agency remained $270 million short of the $697 million required to preposition food before the coming dry season.

This, he ,  enable food agency reach nearly a million  affected by floods which hit most parts of the country since July.

South Sudan risks facing famine again if the funds are not secured within the next few days. The UN agencies and the government declared famine in mid2017,” Beasley told reporters in Juba Thursday.

We are now appealing to the donors that please, we cannot turn our back on the innocent families and children out there. Failure to raise the my we need during this crisis period very well could mean loss of lives,” he added.

According to United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (UNOCHA), more than 908,000  have been affected by heavy rainfall and subsequent flooding, of whom 620,000 needed humanitarian assistance.

Late  month, the South Sudanese President Salva Kiir declared a state of emergency in the floodaffected areas of the country.

Meanwhile, the South Sudan WFP country director, Matthew Hollingworth emphasized that there are very critical food insecurity issues in South Sudan with the malnutrition rate averaging up to 16%.

Sudanese refugees in a refugees camp in Maban, South Sudan (WFP Photo)



20.
Localized clashes drive new influx of South Sudanese refugees into Ethiopia: ECHO
Localized clashes between armed forces in South Sudan's Maiwut have led to a new influx of refugees into Ethiopia's Gambella regional state, the European Civil Protection and Humanitarian Aid Operations (ECHO) disclosed on Thursday.

"Since November, over 3,600 refugees, including unaccompanied or separated minors, have arrived in Pamdong reception center, which is now hosting around 4,000 refugees," ECHO  in its latest situation report issued on Thursday.

Noting the scaling up of its humanitarian response in Pamdong reception center amid the new influx of South Sudanese refugees in collaboration with its partners, ECHO, however, stressed that "major funding gaps remain across all sectors" in the provision of humanitarian support to the refugees.

According to recent figures from the United Nations, displaced South Sudanese nationals have remained the largest refugee population in Ethiopia, totaling about 320,957 persons as of the end of November 2019.

Of all the total refugee population presently living at the Pamdong reception center in Ethiopia's Gambella regional state neighboring South Sudan, some 32 percent are  to be children under 4 years old.

The influx of South Sudanese to Ethiopia started in late 2013, shortly after the 's youngest nation descended into civil war. The conflict eventually created  of the fastestgrowing refugee crises in the .

The UN estimates that about four million South Sudanese have been displaced internally and externally.

A peace deal signed in August 2015 collapsed following renewed violence in the capital, Juba in July 2016.




21.

South Sudan's conflicting parties signed a "final" peace deal in Ethiopia. 
Rebel Alliance, Sudan Govt Work to Make Juba Peace Talks Inclusive

The Sudan Revolutionary Front (SRF) rebel alliance reports they have established a joint mechanism with the government for the involvement of the main stakeholders of the peace talks: the displaced and refugees, native administration leaders, and civil society activists.

Dr El Hadi Idris, chairman of the SRF,  that the joint mechanism between the government and the SRF was formed in the presence of members of Sudan's Supreme Peace Commission and representatives of the UNAU peacekeeping Mission in Darfur (Unamid).

He  that the meeting, attached to the current round of peace talks in Juba, affirmed the need to involve stakeholders in order for peace to be ing and be implemented on the ground.

The meeting discussed the size and proportions of stakeholder participation, the mechanism for their selection and the phase in which they  participate in the negotiations.

Idris  that this committee  visit Darfur with the help of Unamid to discuss the effective and transparent nature of the selection of the real representatives of the stakeholders, pointing out that Unamid has committed to transport the stakeholders to Juba, pointing out that the agreement to form the mechanism was considered an important breakthrough in the negotiations.

Darfur negotiations

The SRF chairman announced the actual start of negotiations on the Darfur track today, explaining that they  present their framework agreement paper to the government delegation and the mediation team, which includes the issues of the displaced and refugees, lands and hawakeer (lands traditionally used by tribal communities), humanitarian issues, and power and wealth sharing.

He mentid that negotiations  continue during the coming days, except for the Christmas and New Year holidays, explaining that delegations  remain in Juba throughout the negotiation period until a final agreement is reached or a real breakthrough occurs in the essential files.

Spokesman for the South Sudan mediation team, Minister of Energy and Dams Dhieu Mathok reported that the Darfur track committee  present its position to the government delegation and the mediation team, describing this as "an important event that constitutes the real beginning for the Darfur track".

He  in a press conference on Wednesday that the Higher Committee for the Darfur Track met yesterday with a view to agreeing on the participation of refugees, displaced  and civil society leaders, considering this an important issue in order to cause breakthroughs in the negotiation processes in the Darfur track, saying that the participation of those affected by the war in the negotiations paves the way to true stability in Sudan.

'Axis to reach peace in Darfur'

He pointed out that agreement on this issue is a basic axis to reach peace in Darfur.

On the separatelyheld peace negotiations with the Sudan 's Liberation MovementNorth faction led by Abdelaziz El Hilu, Mathok  that the document submitted by the rebel group to a committee from the government party, and that the mediators are awaiting the response of the government party after the committee has finished its work.

Aisha Mousa, member of the Sovereign Council, affirmed that the meeting concluded that the displaced and refugees should be represented as the right holders of rights and revealed the formation of a mini committee from all parties participating in the meeting to go to the camps and choose the personalities that  participate in the negotiations.

Yesterday, a delegation of 30 native administration leaders from eastern Sudan, most notably Sheikh Suliman Betay and Mousa Mohamed Ahmed. arrived in Juba with a presidential aircraft.

Radio Dabanga's editorial independence means that we can continue to provide factual updates about political developments to Sudanese and international actors, educate  about how to avoid outbreaks of infectious diseases, and provide a window to the  for those in all corners of Sudan. Support Radio Dabanga for as little as ?2.50, the equivalent of a cup of coffee.



22. Refugee crisis

War, violence, persecution and rights abuses have, over the years, forced  to flee their homeland around the . There are other factors  like environment and climate change  that have displaced  from their homes. The global refugee population today thus stands in excess of 70 million, according to the UN. Of this staggering displaced population, more than a third  some 25 million   have been forced to bid adieu to their own countries altogether. And of those displaced from their own countries, more than 11 million belong to Afghanistan, Syria and South Sudan  with Syrians being the largest forcibly displaced population in the .

Pakistan borders a country that has  of the biggest refugee populations in the  i.e. Afghanistan. The  of Pakistan have played host to around four million Afghan refugees for about four decades. They have embraced the Afghans, fleeing a longdrawn war in their country, with open arms and exemplary generosity, and continue to do so despite huge economic hardships and a host of social and communal problems. There are still three million Afghan refugees in the country, including 1.4 million registered s.

However, this generosity of us Pakistanis has only been acknowledged in words, and no countries of the  have stepped ahead to shoulder this huge burden that we have been carrying for decades over decades. At the first Global Refugee Forum held in Geneva, Prime Minister Imran Khan, as coconvener, spoke on the crisis and made it clear that Pakistan is in no position to accommodate any more refugees and that the ' must now step in'. He has forewarned the  of the 'biggest impending refugee crisis' in South Asia due to the fascist polices of the Indian PM whereby Kashmiris have been kept under a lockdown since August 5, the Muslim population in Assam has been deprived of Indian nationality, and the citizenship act introduced.





1.
Abiy Ahmed, Vladimir Lenin and the Quest for Peace

Abiy Ahmed was in a hurry. This year's Nobel Peace Prize laureate surprised his Norwegian hosts when he declined to hold  press conferences and skipped town shortly after delivering his Dec. 10 Nobel lecture. Rising ethnic tensions beckd the Ethiopian prime minister home.

Mr. Abiy won the Nobel for his "decisive initiative to resolve the border conflict with neighboring Eritrea," but his most important work lies ahead of him. Ethnic conflict is the principal threat to the stability of Ethiopia  Africa's secondmostpopulous country,  of the 's fastestgrowing economies, and a critical U.S. counterterrorism partner. And the country's constitution exacerbates the problem. To stave off disaster, Mr. Abiy must reverse decades of ethnic exclusion, reinforce panEthiopian identity, and reform a flawed federal system. He must banish the ghost of Vladimir Lenin.

The Ethiopian census lists more than 85 ethnic groups, and the 1995 constitution has reinforced differences among them by dividing the country into nine ethnically defined regional states. Now that Mr. Abiy has called for elections and lifted restrictions on freedom of expression, ethnonationalists among the regionally dominant groups are feeling emboldened. Some are violent. Minorities in the nine ethnic states have good reason to fear the tyranny of the majority: Nearly three million Ethiopians fled their homes in 2018. That's more than were internally displaced due to conflict in Syria, Somalia and Nigeria combined  year.

Ethnic federalism is "a very problematic model for any multiethnic society," says Lovise Aalen, a political scientist at Norway's Christian Michelsen Institute. The federal structure empowers regionally dominant groups like the Oromo (34% of Ethiopia's population) and the Amhara (27%), giving them little reason to compromise with ethnic minorities or migrants who've left their home region. "Unlike any other constitution," Addis Ababa University political scientist Asnake Kefale tells me, Ethiopia's "allows selfdetermination up to secession." While the provision is unique, it isn't unprecedented  it appeared in the 1946 constitution of Yugoslavia.

Ethiopian ethnic federalism presents a historical puzzle: Why would an ethnically diverse country adopt such a constitution, especially a few years after the Soviet Union and Yugoslavia fell apart?

Ms. Aalen says ethnic federalism was "a very useful tool for the TPLF," the ethnic Tigrayan rebel group that seized power in 1991. "They as 6% of the population couldn't dominate efficiently through a unitary system." Federalism allowed the TPLF to pit ethnic groups against  another and monopolize power at the center. But federalism wasn't just a "sophisticated divideandrule thing. . . . It was an ideological thing," Ms. Aalen continues. "They were a MarxistLeninist group who were highly influenced by the Leninist thinking about ethnicity." Lenin thought identities were firmly fixed, not "easily mobilized, easily dormant," as Ms. Aalen puts it. He held that a centralized party could, through repression, "guide ethnic mobilization" indefinitely. Both assumptions proved faulty.

The historical puzzle gives way, then, to historical irony. In Ethiopia, MarxistLeninist rebels triumphed as the Cold War ended. They brought with them an idea that had been tried in the Soviet Union and Yugoslavia. All this in a country with the raw material to forge a strong national identity  including a proud history of defying colonialism.

Mr. Kefale sees some good in Ethiopian federalism. "There were some advances," he says. "The different groups were allowed to use their languages for selfadministration and for education."

In October, Mr. Abiy published a book called "Medemer." The title, "synergy" in Amharic, evokes panEthiopian identity. But as the political system opens up, longdisempowered groups aren't feeling medemer. On Nov. 20, voters in the Sidama z of Ethiopia's southern region  home to more than 45 ethnicities  overwhelmingly voted to create a 10th state. The Sidama example may lead other ethnic groups to seek statehood for themselves. "I think there are going to be more regions in the south," Mr. Kefale says.

If Mr. Abiy hopes to be celebrated in Ethiopia for generations and not merely in Norway for a night, he needs to do  things. First, immediately provide security for vulnerable minorities. Second, propose a constitutional convention.  ideas to strengthen national identity: Reconfigure the electoral system to encourage coalitions across ethnic lines, and break up the existing ethnic regions into smaller provinces.

Before considering constitutional reforms, however, Mr. Abiy  have to triumph in elections scheduled for May. Medemer rhetoric wins him support across ethnic lines, but it has outraged some of his fellow Oromos, such as Jawar Mohammed, whose Oromia Media Nerk has more than a million Facebook followers. Mr. Abiy's defense minister, an Oromo, has spoken out against the prime minister's latest gamble: dissolving the old ruling party and replacing it with the new Prosperity Party. "There are elections, there is the formation of the party," Mr. Kefale says. "The system is very much overwhelmed." Mr. Abiy has the Peace Prize, but his work for peace has only begun.




2. Middle East News

Trump Calls for Restraint in Northwestern Syria; President criticizes Russia, Syria and Iran for intensifying attacks on rebel stronghold


"Russia, Syria, and Iran are killing, or on their way to killing, thousands of innocent civilians in Idlib Province. Don't do it!" Mr. Trump tweeted while in Florida for his winter vacation. "Turkey is working hard to stop this carnage."

Idlib province in northwestern Syria has suffered regular strikes since the end of April as President Bashar alAssad, backed by Russia and Iran, attempts to reassert control over the entire country after nearly nine years of war. Turkey supports some of the rebel groups in Idlib. Ankara, Moscow and Tehran engage with each other in trilateral talks to find a solution to the conflict while preserving their often opposing interests.

Those strikes have escalated since  week, according to monitoring groups, fighters and Western agencies, focusing on the town of Maarat alNuman. As many as 100,000  have fled the town and surrounding areas since Dec. 16, according to the United Nations, which has warned that an offensive on Idlib would cause a humanitarian disaster.

On Tuesday, despite a United Nations request for a humanitarian pause in the fighting that the U.N.  had been accepted, Russian warplanes bombed a camp for displaced  near the town of Jobas, according to Syrian nongovernmental organizations. The strikes killed at least 10  including six children, according to the White Helmets aid group, and warmonitoring groups the Syrian Nerk for Human Rights and the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights.

An hour later, the Syrian government, which is backed by Moscow, bombed the main road near the town of Babeela, the White Helmets .

Russia's Foreign Ministry  Thursday Moscow favored taking more active steps to fully implement the memorandum Moscow signed with Turkey in Sochi in September on Idlib, including separating the moderate opposition from those Moscow deems to be terrorists. The ministry's spokeswoman, Maria Zakharova, suggested that Russia's patience is running thin.

"For our part, we are taking measures to keep the situation under control," Ms. Zakharova, told reporters Thursday. "It is obvious, however, that the terrorist enclave in Idlib cannot be tolerated endlessly."

Ms. Zakharova slammed what she called the "illegal presence of the United States and its allies in this part of Syria, as well as Israeli airstrikes."

The U.N. Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs on Tuesday morning sent an email to Syrian NGOs informing them that its requested pause in the fighting had been approved to allow for safe passage out of Maarat alNuman, a town that has been heavily attacked the past week, according to local organizations.

Sharing the coordinates of  roads leading out of town, a U.N. official wrote: "Please can you share this as widely as possible to allow as many  as possible who still need to move to take advantage of the window."

Another U.N. official  the organization had requested a pause in airstrikes that ntheless occurred in the mentid areas, but wouldn't comment on who carried them out.

The Russian Ministry of Defense didn't reply to a request for comment on Tuesday's strikes.

The Syrian government couldn't be reached for comment. Syrian state news and a war monitor  Thursday progovernment troops advanced and captured several villages in Idlib. Syrian state news, citing the military,  the government has so far captured more than 40 villages in its latest offensive.

Iranian officials on Thursday dismissed Mr. Trump's criticism.

Syria has a "legitimate right to fight terrorism and terrorist groups operating in Syria,"  Alireza Miryousefi, spokesman for Iran's mission to the U.N. He  the U.S. "stays illegally in Syria and is not in a position to preach others how to legally help the Syrian government to fight terrorists."

Following a ph call with Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan on Oct. 6, Mr. Trump directed a complete withdrawal of U.S. troops from Syria with the exception of a small complement of American troops at the al Tanf garrison in southeast Syria near the Jordanian and Iraqi borders.

The expected battle for Idlib  likely be the final major government offensive in a multisided war, in which foreign powers have fought for competing interests on Syrian turf. The province is meant to be protected by a ceasefire agreement  year between Russia and Turkey, which back opposite sides of the conflict. Idlib province is home to about three million , half of whom have been displaced from elsewhere in Syria.

An allout offensive would send more Syrian refugees to Turkey, which already hosts nearly four million Syrian refugees and has closed its borders. Mr. Erdogan  Sunday that 80,000 refugees were on the move from Idlib toward Turkey.

According to the U.N., the newly displaced come in addition to more than 400,000  who have fled their homes since the end of April.

Nazih Osseiran and Ann M. Simmons contributed to this article.

Write to Sune Engel Rasmussen at sune.rasmussen@wsj.com[mailto:sune.rasmussen@wsj.com] and Rebecca Ballhaus at Rebecca.Ballhaus@wsj.com[mailto:Rebecca.Ballhaus@wsj.com]



3. Attacks Mount on Syrian Rebel Province  WSJ

Russia and Assad regime step up strikes, escalating a humanitarian crisis

By Sune Engel Rasmussen and Nazih Osseiran 
This article is being republished as part of our daily reproduction of WSJ.com articles that appeared in the U.S. print edition of The Wall Street Journal (December 24, 2019).

BEIRUT  Russia and the Syrian government have intensified attacks on the  rebel stronghold in northwestern Syria, forcing tens of thousands to flee toward the Turkish border amid fears of an allout offensive to recapture the territory.

Idlib province has suffered regular strikes since the end of April as President Bashar alAssad, backed by Russia and Iran, reasserts control over the entire country after nearly nine years of war.

Those strikes have escalated since  week, according to monitoring groups, fighters and Western agencies, focusing on the town of Maarat alNuman. As many as 100,000  have fled the town and surrounding areas since Dec. 16, according to the United Nations, which has warned that an offensive on Idlib would cause a humanitarian disaster.

The expected battle for Idlib  likely be the final major government offensive in a multisided war, in which foreign powers have fought for competing interests on Syrian turf. The province is meant to be protected by a ceasefire agreement  year between Russia and Turkey, which back opposite sides of the conflict.

An allout offensive would send more Syrian refugees to Turkey, which already hosts nearly four million Syrian refugees and has closed its borders. Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan  Sunday that 80,000 refugees were on the move from Idlib toward Turkey.

Idlib province is home to about three million , half of whom have been displaced from elsewhere in Syria.

"To me, this is an attack on a refugee camp," Jan Egeland, secretarygeneral of the Norwegian Refugee Council, . "It's true that there's a lot of bad guys there, and guns, that's a fact. But there are many more babies than bad guys."

The rampedup Russian attacks come ahead of a visit this week to Moscow by a Turkish delegation led by Deputy Foreign Minister Sedat Onal. The  sides would discuss Idlib as well as the conflict in Libya, where Ankara and Moscow support opposing sides, Mr. Erdogan   week.

Mr. Erdogan earlier this month  Ankara was ready to send soldiers to Libya to prop up the internationally recognized government fighting Khalifa Haftar, an insurgent commander backed by Moscow.

Mr. Erdogan wants to discuss proposals to avoid a clash in Libya when he hosts his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin on Jan. 8, according to  familiar with the matter.

By striking Idlib now, Moscow is trying to pressure Turkey for concessions, as it has d before previous summits, according to Col. Fatih Hassoun, commander of the National Liberation Movement, a Turkishbacked opposition group in Idlib.

"Idlib has become the place where messages are being exchanged between countries," Mr. Hassoun . "The Syrian  are paying the price."

Russia and Turkey in October established a military partnership in northeast Syria to uphold a buffer z along the border after a Turkish incursion to take the area from Kurdishled militia.

With much of the global focus on Turkey's military campaign in northeastern Syria, Mr. Assad's forces backed by Russian firepower have intensified strikes on Idlib.

Stretched thin after eight years of war, and relying on Russia for airpower, Damascus has for months shaved off edges of the periphery of the province, which it has vowed to retake completely.

Mr. Assad and Russian forces have taken sections around the strategic M5 highway, which cuts through Maarat alNuman, the focus of the most recent attacks. Still, Russia hasn't supported a fullblown offensive on Idlib.

"This approach of salamislicing Idlib may be a concession by Russia to Turkey and an expression of Russian concern for Turkish interests, even as Russia is apparently uning to preserve the original agreed boundaries of this Idlib z,"  Sam Heller, senior analyst with the International Crisis Group. A total offensive, he , "could be more sweeping and chaotic."

Many residents of Maarat alNuman are displaced from Khan Sheikhoun, a town that suffered a deadly chemical attack by the Syrian government in 2017, and Hama, the scene of several largescale offensives.

The humanitarian situation is further threatened by Russian and Chinese vetoes  week of a U.N. Security Council resolution to allow crossborder aid deliveries into Syria from Turkey and Iraq.

The current permission expires Jan. 10, after which the U.N.  no longer be able to deliver aid across the borders, unless another resolution is passed.

4. Global View
Pompeo Champions the Faithful


Christmas is anything but a season of peace and joy for millions of Christians around the  today. Not since the death of Stalin have Christians in so many places faced the levels of discrimination, violence, imprisonment and even death on account of their religion that they do today.

After more than a century of intermittent genocide, persecution and forced removals, ancient Christian populations in much of the Middle East are on the edge of extinction. Iraq's Christian population, estimated at 1.4 million as recently as 2003, fell by almost 90% in the chaos that followed the American invasion. Roughly three quarters of Syria's Christian population, estimated at  million before the current civil war, are refugees. Once a substantial percentage of the Arab Palestinian population, Christians are rapidly disappearing from the Palestinian territories. Egypt still retains a large Christian population, but Copts face pervasive discrimination and, especially in rural areas, violence.

Persecution hangs over beleaguered Christian communities in much of the . Christians in subSaharan Africa face violence from Boko Haram fighters. In Pakistan no Christian is safe from false charges of blasphemy. Hindu mobs in India have attacked churches. In Indsia, radical Islamists attempt to disrupt the traditionally peaceful relationships among the country's religious groups.

The most alarming developments are taking place in China. As authorities in Beijing work to enforce ideological conformity and restrict debate among China's 1.4 billion , the Christian population is experiencing heightened scrutiny and pressure. Crosses have been pulled down from church roofs, and churches have been bulldozed. More ominously, the biometric monitoring and close surveillance that has been used to crush Tibetan Buddhists and the Muslims of Xinjiang has been systematically introduced into Christian churches across the country.

China's Communist rulers are well aware that Christians have led democracy movements in many countries. It is not only Pope John Paul II's role in ending Communist rule in Poland; South Korea's democracy movement was led by Christians. The rapid growth of Christianity in China  from about three million believers in 1949 to somewhere between 60 million and 100 million today  alarms Beijing. Some of the most visible leaders of the Hong Kong protests are prominently identified as Christian.

Christians have no monopoly on being persecuted. Muslims in much of Asia face unprecedented repression. Jews throughout the  stand appalled before a rising tide of antiSemitic hate. The followers of these three religions, widely dispersed across the , are achingly vulnerable to the fear of diversity, hatred of dissent, and lack of legal protections found in so many countries today.

Secretary of State Mike Pompeo wants to make religious freedom the centerpiece of American humanrights policy. This is not just about shoring up President Trump's support among religious voters. Mr. Pompeo tells me that religious liberty is a key condition of prosperity and security, and putting it at the center of American humanrights advocacy  highlight what he calls "the central premise of American foreign policy and the Trump administration," that "the essential dignity of every human being matters."

That is not always the impression Mr. Trump gives in his tweets, but Mr. Pompeo has a real point. The ability of every person to follow his conscience is the basic right from which all others flow. No state, political party or social movement has the right to tell human beings what they can or cannot believe.

Translating this into activism is anything but straightforward. Today as in the past, intolerance and fanaticism within religious communities is a leading cause of persecution. And for many advocates of causes like gay rights and abortion, religion is an oppnt to defeat rather than a partner to protect.

Yet the extraordinary violence being deployed against Christians, Muslims and members of religious minorities like the Yazidis and the Baha'i  at levels not seen since the  era of Communist persecution  should serve as a wakeup call.

Religious freedom is not only the most basic human right; the defense of religious freedom is good politics for American humanrights advocates. Americans' appetite for humanrights diplomacy and interventions is limited after their failures in recent decades. To regain public trust, American human rightsadvocates must reconnect with concerns and priorities that reach the broad public. The cause of religious freedom offers the humanrights community its best opportunity to build its base of support while confronting a monstrous evil.

Meanwhile, as Americans of all faiths and no faith celebrate the holidays with family and friends, we could do worse than to remember the millions around the  who suffer discrimination and persecution simply for following their consciences.



5. Journal Reports: Decade in Review

The Changing Face of Immigration; Most of those crossing into the U.S. illegally used to be Mexican men seeking work. Now it is families and unaccompanied minors from Central America seeking asylum.

Millions of  fleeing wars, violence, corruption and poverty in their home countries went on the move this decade, driving politics and antiimmigration sentiment on both sides of the Atlantic.

In the U.S., illegal immigration surged in the latter part of the decade, and there was a big change in who was trying to enter the country from the Southern border.

As the Mexican economy improved and deportations soared during President Obama's first term, the number of illegal immigrants from Mexico declined significantly, and in their place came families and children traveling al, most from the Central American nations of El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras.

By 2014, Mexican nationals for the first time in modern history made up a minority of border arrests. Nearly 140,000  traveling as families and children traveling al made up the new majority. Most asked for asylum, saying they were fleeing violence and corruption in their home countries.

The Obama administration was initially unprepared for the flood, setting up the first of what would turn out to be multiple humanitarian crises at the border. It opened family jails in an effort to deter the asylum seekers, but the detention facilities were scaled back in the summer of 2015 after a federal judge in California ruled that the government could only detain parents with their children for up to 20 days.

Until recently, the families and children seeking asylum were allowed to remain in the U.S. until their claims were decided. Hundreds of thousands are still waiting for that process to play out amid a backlog of more than  million cases pending in immigration court.

In the federal fiscal year ended in September, 65% of those arrested crossing the Mexican border—about 550,000 —were either traveling as families or were unaccompanied minors. That figure, on the rise since 2017, set off its own crisis as the Trump administration tried to deter migrants through tougher detention policies.

U.S. Border Patrol agents (top) take into custody a father and son from Honduras in Texas, June 2018. Silvia (above) holds her daughter Eyni for the first time in 29 days, July 2018. Silvia came to the U.S. to escape life in Guatemala and live with family in Georgia. PHOTO: Melissa Golden for The Wall Street Journal

Decade in Review

Explore the Timeline[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/whatwasnewsthedecadesbiggeststories11576630800]

 Read the full report[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/news/collection/decadeinreviewf6144083]

 The Puzzle of the Economy[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/economistsgotthedecadeallwrongtheyretryingtofigureoutwhy11576346400]

 Joanna Stern on the Smartph[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/firstthesmartphchangedthenoveradecadeitchangedus11576618873]

 A Nation Divided[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/howtheusbecameanationdivided11576630802]

 Frugality Got Its Groove Back[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/howfrugalitygotitsgrooveback11576630808]

 Jason Gay on the Cubs and Other Bright Spots[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/thedecadewasntallhorriblethecubswon11576332001]

 Order copies of The Decade in Review print section[https://wsjshop.com/]

While the White House reversed course on some of its tactics—including separating migrant children from their parents—it claimed they were effective overall. Its most effective policy appears to have been the  known as "Remain in Mexico," in which tens of thousands of asylum seekers this year have been forced to wait in Mexico instead of the U.S. until their cases are resolved. The policy, which critics say violates the migrants' dueprocess rights and puts them at risk in unsafe Mexican cities, has helped to significantly lower the number of families arrested crossing the border in recent months.

In Europe, meanwhile, a steep surge in the number of asylum seekers reaching Europe in 2015 was  of the most momentous political developments on the continent since the euroz debt crisis broke out five years earlier.

The influx of nearly  million , mostly from the Middle East, Africa and Afghanistan, bolstered antiimmigration parties from Greece to Sweden, Germany, Spain and Denmark. It opened a deep rift between Eastern and WesternEuropean countries over how to spread the burden of caring for the newcomers.

Thousands of  drowned in the Mediterranean Sea trying to migrate to Europe from Syria, Iraq, Afghanistan. Photos of rickety rafts overloaded with migrants and the body of a Syrian boy on a beach drew global attention to the issue in 2015.

By the end of 2016, the U.N. estimated that about 5.2 million refugees had fled to Europe.

In the U.K., concern over migration was  of the key issues in the campaign leading to the 2016 referendum on leaving the European Union.

In Germany, a country where politics is still shaped by memories of the Nazi era, the refugee crisis pushed support for the antiimmigration, nationalist AfD into double digits, allowing it to enter parliament for the first time in 2017.

In 2019, the U.N. estimated that there are more than 20 million refugees wide and more than 41 million "internally displaced persons" who have fled their homes amid war or other political conflicts.




6. London Attack Puts Focus On Tracking Terror Convicts  WSJ

The killing of   by a convicted terrorist on early release from prison has highlighted a growing challenge for security services in the U.K. and across Europe: the return into the community of  who have served time in jail for terrorism offenses.

The attack in the London Bridge area on Friday  by a knifewielding man who was convicted in 2012 for being part of a group that was plotting to bomb the London Stock Exchange  has thrust the sentencing of terrorists to center stage in the campaigning in the Dec. 12 general election.

It is the second consecutive generalelection campaign that has been interrupted by a terrorist incident: In 2017, a nearby attack that left 11  dead raised questions about cutbacks in funding for the police.

The question of how to monitor convicted terrorists returning into society is a growing issue for stretched counterterrorism police and security agencies in the U.K. and across Europe  a parallel with the challenge they face from jihadists returning from the Syrian conflict.

Usman Khan, the attacker, was released early from prison in December 2018 under a set of conditions that included an internet ban, a curfew and limitations on his movements and meetings. He carried a GPS tag allowing the authorities to track his whereabouts. He had been given a custodial sentence of 16 years, of which he served eight years from his arrest in December 2010.

Police shot and killed him on London Bridge after being confronted by members of the public. He had been wearing a fake suicide vest.

The Islamic State terrorist group  Khan was  of its fighters. However, the group has claimed responsibility for other attacks, without evidence later emerging of its involvement. Khan's group drew its inspiration in 2010 from an al Qaeda affiliate, prosecutors .

Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Sunday  there were around 74 other convicted terrorists who had been released early from prison, and that police were ensuring they are properly supervised.

Mr. Johnson  he would introduce longer prison sentences for terrorist offenses, add to prison capacity and roll back some restrictions on the surveillance of suspected terrorists if his Conservative Party is returned to power.

"If you are convicted of a serious terrorist offense, there should be a mandatory minimum sentence of 14 years  and some should never be released," he wrote in the Mail on Sunday newspaper. Terrorists and extremists should serve every day of their sentences "with no exceptions, " he .

The main opposition Labour Party, meanwhile, focused on budget cuts to the police and the probationary services. In an interview with Sky News, Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn  he didn't think terrorists should always serve out their full sentences. "Not necessarily, no," he . "I think it depends on the circumstances."

Friday's attacks took place inside Fishmongers' Hall, a building on the northwestern end of London Bridge used for conferences. Khan, who told authorities that he had abandd his jihadist views, was attending an event hosted by Learning Together, a University of Cambridge program that aims to rehabilitate prisrs through education.

The University of Cambridge on Sunday  both of those killed on Friday were associated with the institution, as was  of the three injured.

"I am sad beyond words to report that a course coordinator, Jack Merritt, was killed,"  Stephen J. Toope, the university's vice chancellor.

A statement released through the police by 25yearold Mr. Merritt's parents , "We know Jack would not want this terrible, isolated incident to be used as a pretext by the government for introducing even more draconian sentences on prisrs, or for detaining  in prison for longer than necessary."

On Sunday, the police named the other victim as 23yearold Saskia Js, a Cambridge graduate from StratforduponAvon who was a volunteer with Learning Together.

British officials say the numbers of returning jihadists from Syria has so far been lower than expected  but they are dealing with a steady stream of  convicted of terrorism offenses leaving jail who  need monitoring by security services.

A 2019 report from Globsec, a nonpartisan think tank based in Slovakia, described the release of individuals from confinement across Europe as an issue that "constitutes and  constitute a challenge for security authorities in the future." It cites, however, some academic studies that suggest  with terrorist convictions are less likely to reoffend than other criminals.

It  that of a sample of 199 individuals arrested in 2015  what it describes as the peak year for European jihadists  57% would be released from prison by the end of 2023. As many as 45 had already been released from prison because they received short sentences, it .

Compared with the U.S., sentences in Europe are short. The European police agency Europol  in its terrorism threat report published this year that over the previous three years "the average prison sentence for jihadist terrorist offenses remained five years."

In France, the maximum sentence for association with terrorism is 10 years. In Belgium, depending on the degree of involvement in a terrorist group, sentences start at five to 10 years, ranging up to 20 years for terrorgroup leaders.

In Germany, courts lean toward a lenient interpretation of the law that already provides a very high level of protection of the rights of the accused. Terror suspects rarely get lengthy prison sentences, and those who are jailed are able to take advantage of the parole system if they behave well in prison.

A Hamburg court in November sentenced  Iraqis linked to Islamic State to four years and eight months in prison for preparing a terrorist attack. The  cousins, who arrived in Germany as refugees in 2016, established contact with Islamic State handlers over the internet and built explosive devices with the intention of killing as many  as possible, according to the court ruling. They took driving lessons to be able to execute a vehicle attack.

In another recent case, a Syrian man who lives in Germany as a refugee was sentenced to three years and nine months in prison for having fought with Islamic State in Syria and Iraq. According to court files, the man volunteered to join the terror group in 2014.

Germany's Federal Criminal Police Office has identified 679 Islamist extremists who are believed to be able to commit terrorist attacks. They are monitored by authorities, but prosecutors are unable to charge them because of a lack of evidence.




7. Houses of Worship
Lebanon's Discontent Has Religious Roots

For more than  weeks Lebanese citizens from every walk of life have taken to the streets demanding social and political reform. While the protests have been unifying and peaceful, at the heart of Lebanon's problems is a deepseated identity crisis.

After  War I the French established Lebanon as a homeland for Christians who had been hiding in its mountains since the advent of Islam. Long famous for its cedar trees  and the Phoenicians who used them to build ships for the 's first maritime trading empire  Lebanon always has been a nexus between the Semitic heartland and GrecoRoman  beyond. The distinctive expression of Lebanese Christianity, the Syriac Maronite Church, was an Aramaicspeaking Eastern rite affiliated with the Western See of Rome.

Lebanon's geographic isolation still didn't hold back the outside . After  particularly bad antiChristian pogrom in 1860  and subsequent intervention by Britain and France  the Ottoman Empire gave Lebanon's historic autonomy the force of law. Sixty years later, the French took possession and moved the country toward independence over the objections of local Muslims who wanted to remain part of Greater Syria. Maronite leaders asked the League of Nations to extend the borders of the fledgling state to make it more economically viable. This move more than doubled Lebanon's Muslim population, making the region's only Christian state barely halfChristian before its official founding.

The Maronites retained control over Lebanon's preindependence politics until Christian emigration and Muslim population growth forced them to make concessions in the National Pact of 1943. While successful in consolidating control of the presidency, army and Parliament, the Maronites disavowed their allegiance to the West and conceded Lebanon's Arab identity. Never mind that most did not see themselves as truly Arab.

Hence the fundamental source of Lebanon's instability: Though built as a Christian state, Lebanon has become less Christian over time. The discrepancy between law and fact grows more glaring. Already on the eve of independence in 1943, Lebanon was little more than a ChristianMuslim powersharing experiment. Since then, the growing Muslim majority has sought to cast off the control of a shrinking, frustrated and increasingly paranoid Christian minority.

Caught up in the Arabist tide of the mid20th century, Lebanon slid toward crisis in 1958 and again in 1975 when local Muslim forces teamed up with Yasser Arafat's Palestinian guerrillas to challenge state authority. The violent countercampaign of Lebanon's Christians, which launched a bloody 15year civil war, was the panicked response of a  determined to save a homeland they had never really possessed.

After some initial success, Lebanon's Christian factions turned on each other and lost the war. Exhausted and forced to compromise, the  sides struck a deal in 1989. The Ta'if Agreement reduced Christian representation in Parliament, limited the power of the Maronite president, and enhanced the power of the Sunni prime minister. It forced the disarmament of Lebanon's militias  with the exception of Hezbollah, which was allowed to keep its weapons to fight Israeli forces commanding a small strip of land on the Lebanese side of the border.

Thirty years later Hezbollah is stronger, Muslims are more numerous (especially after an influx of Syrian refugees), and Christians are divided among various Sunni and Shiite parties to which they have pledged allegiance to survive. Meanwhile, an Islamic civil war playing out across the region has made the Near East even more dangerous for Christians than it was a century ago. The tiny country that was built to shelter them has itself become a vehicle for repressing them.

Lebanon's Christians need security more than ever. Given the region's history of religious violence, their fears are likely to grow in proportion to their exclusion from Lebanese politics. Where those fears  lead  and how they can be addressed  is the question  leaders should ask. Whether it's decentralization, partition or emigration, the country needs a solution quickly.

Lebanon can't be a Christian state: That ship sailed in the 1940s. If Lebanon serves no purpose distinct from its neighbors, why should it exist? The failure to answer this question lies at the heart of the country's instability, harming Christians and Muslims alike. Without a cogent sense of national identity and a vision for its future, Lebanon's economic and political decline  and its manipulation by foreign powers   get worse.




8. With Invasion, Turkish Leader Regains Political Sway  WSJ


Turkey's longtime leader, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, had suffered political blows in recent months from a recession and unease over millions of Syrian refugees, reflected in key election losses and rare defiance from ruling party bigwigs over his authoritarian and nepotistic ways.

Now, after three weeks of military action, Mr. Erdogan's political horizon has suddenly brightened.

Roundtheclock television is beaming footage of Turkish soldiers deploying in northeastern Syria, celebrating the audacity of Turkey's "commander in chief" to strike a SyrianKurdish militia despite U.S. calls to abort it. "The Offensive of the Century," read a frontpage banner headline.

Condemned globally, the incursion drew near unanimous support across Turkey's deep political divide as a solution both to combat a widely perceived threat by the militia and to create an enclave to resettle millions of Syrian refugees in Turkey.

The SyrianKurdish militia that Turkey is fighting was vital in the U.S. campaign against Islamic State  and to track down and kill the terror group's leader, Abu Bakr alBaghdadi, this week. But Turkish officials see the militia, known as the YPG, as an existential threat because of its ties to the Turkish PKK insurgency.

"The moment the Turkish army goes to the front line, our only party is the Turkish flag," Meral Aksener, leader of the opposition Good Party,  when the offensive began on Oct. 9.

President Trump's threats to wreck the Turkish economy if Mr. Erdogan behaved like "a tough guy" and attacked the Kurds have only bolstered Mr. Erdogan's narrative that he is the sole bulwark against Kurdish terrorism. Negotiations with U.S. Vice President Mike Pence and Russian President Vladimir Putin over truces then buttressed Mr. Erdogan's image as a statesman of global stature.

The Syrian military campaign marks a spectacular political turnaround for Mr. Erdogan, months after his ruling Justice and Development Party, or AKP, lost mayoral seats in Istanbul, Ankara, and other large Turkish cities. The campaign countered widespread voter resentment over Mr. Erdogan's openarms refugee policy that led to the arrival of four million Syrians in Turkey, displaced by that neighboring country's civil war.

Mr. Erdogan's political renaissance could be fleeting.

The Syria invasion won't help repair a rickety Turkish economy beset by doubledigit unemployment and a chronic dependency on foreign funding. Mr. Trump lifted U.S. sanctions he adopted in response to Turkey's incursion but U.S. lawmakers planned a vote Tuesday on a bipartisan bill to punish Ankara.

Renewed clashes this week between Kurdish and Turkish forces are raising the risk of extended hostilities. Tensions between Mr. Erdogan and Syria's leader, Bashar alAssad, remain. And Turkey's plan to resettle Syrian refugees to a "safe z" in Syria along the  country's shared border lacks funding and faces criticism as being ill conceived.

But the recent events have allowed Mr. Erdogan, long a champion of political Islam, to cement a shift he initiated in 2015 toward Turkey's nationalist camp, when he halted peace talks with the PKK. In the following years he formed an alliance with an ultranationalist party and revived the cult of Mustafa Kemal Atatürk, the father of modern Turkey. Mr. Erdogan has gained breathing room to tackle the refugee issue,  Sezgin Tanrikulu, a lawmaker with the opposition Republican 's Party, or CHP.

"After the municipal defeats, Mr. Erdogan had lost his capacity to drive the agenda," Mr. Tanrikulu . "He has regained the upper hand."

Following the 2011 Arab Spring uprising in Syria, Turkey openly aimed to topple Mr. Assad, becoming a rear base for rebel groups and welcoming hundreds of thousands of families escaping the conflict. At the time, the country's economy was thriving, and Mr. Erdogan  Turks had a duty to assist their Muslim brothers.

"No matter how many come, we are obliged to accept them," Mr. Erdogan  in 2012.

The number of refugees kept rising after 2016, when Mr. Erdogan struck a deal with the European Union to keep asylum seekers in Turkey in exchange for financial help.

But as Turkey's economy swung into recession  year, antiimmigrant sentiment soared and Turkish voters, including supporters of Mr. Erdogan's AKP, registered their anger in the March municipal elections and a June 23 repeat vote in Istanbul.

Mr. Erdogan's approval rating was 44% in August, according to a survey conducted by Turkish polling agency Metropoll, down from 53.1% in July 2018, when Mr. Erdogan inaugurated his new, fiveyear presidential mandate.

The results highlighted how Mr. Erdogan, who had long benefited from a fragmented opposition, now faced a powerful coalition spanning secularists to Islamists and nationalists.

Following the electoral rout in Istanbul, an Erdogan aide , "If he doesn't quickly redress the course of action, he's doomed."

Official data this summer showed that the AKP had hemorrhaged 850,000 members, nearly 10% of its roughly 10 millionstrong base.  heavyweight members, Ahmet Davutoglu, a former prime minister, and Ali Babacan, a former finance minister, left the AKP with plans to create rival parties.

"Unfortunately, AKP's boards and consultation mechanisms, which helped foster shared wisdom, have been transformed into bureaus tasked with rubber stamping the decisions of  man," Mr. Davutoglu  before defecting.

Mr. Erdogan called them traitors, but changed tack on the refugee issue. In July, authorities began conducting more identity checks in a bid to resettle many Syrians in Istanbul, a megalopolis of 16 million. And in August, Mr. Erdogan  Turkey aimed "to accelerate the return of Syrian refugees to their homes."

What Mr. Erdogan had once called a "security z" in northern Syria free of Kurdish fighters became a "safe z" to relocate Syrian refugees.

At the United Nations General Assembly in September, Mr. Erdogan presented a map of his proposed 20 miles by 300 miles z, accompanied with a 20page booklet containing computergenerated photos of entire cities Turkey would build for the refugees, and a spreadsheet detailing the $27 billion construction cost.

Western diplomats criticized the Turkish plan for its high cost and the risk to altering Syria's ethnic fabric by sending refugees to regions different from their province of origin. After Turkey launched its offensive, the U.S. and the EU  they wouldn't help finance construction in the safe z.

Most Turks had no such qualms.

"Listen, I'm a CHP guy,"  Onur Yagcioglu, a 31yearold pharmacist, referring to the opposition party. "But I'm 100% with President Erdogan on the military intervention, and I trust he  send all the refugees back to Syria."



9. America Can't Escape The Middle East A Violent Region Tests U.S. Reliability  WSJ


Ever since the national trauma of the war in Iraq, both winning presidential candidates have run on pledges to extricate the U.S. from costly Middle Eastern entanglements.

Barack Obama promised in 2008 to end the war in Iraq launched by President George W. Bush, and during his 2012 reelection campaign, he touted America's withdrawal from Iraq as a striking achievement. By the time Donald Trump won the Republican nomination in 2016, Mr. Obama had been forced to send some U.S. troops back to Iraq to prevent a takeover by the newly arisen Islamic State. Still, Mr. Trump campaigned on plans to finally end America's "endless wars" and to cease nationbuilding abroad.

"We have d them a great service, and we've d a great job for all of them, and now we're getting out," Mr. Trump  this week. "Let some else fight over this long bloodstained sand."

Nor is there much appetite for Middle East conflicts among the Democratic frontrunners trying to replace Mr. Trump. "I think that we ought to get out of the Middle East," Sen. Elizabeth Warren  at a debate earlier this month.

The past decade has shown, however, that the U.S. can't wish away the Middle East, no matter how tempting that may be for American voters. The 2003 invasion of Iraq proved to be a debacle, but subsequent attempts to pivot away from the region or ignore it altogether have contributed to humanitarian catastrophes, terrorist outrages and geopolitical setbacks, further eroding America's standing in the .

Mr. Trump's abrupt decision earlier this month to pull out from hitherto relatively calm northern Syria  permitting a Turkish invasion and triggering an exodus by America's abandd Kurdish allies and a gleeful Russian takeover of deserted U.S. bases  is the latest such shock. The president's decision has elicited unusually bipartisan pushback in Congress, alarmed American partners and emboldened Iran  a country that Mr. Trump, despite his often bellicose rhetoric, allowed to get away with being the staging ground for a debilitating attack on Saudi Arabia's main oil installation in midSeptember.

"States, including Arab states, that have depended on America for a long time are suddenly feeling very worried whether this support is really there in very difficult times,"  Nabil Fahmy, who served as Egypt's foreign minister in 201314.

Such worries predate Mr. Trump's administration. In 2013, Mr. Obama's uningness to enforce his selfdeclared "red line" on the use of chemical weapons in Syria emboldened the regime of Bashar alAssad and sowed global doubts about America's fortitude. The worsening crisis in Syria contributed to the rise of Islamic State and to a refugee crisis that has jolted European politics, fueling the rise of the antiimmigration far right. Before that, in 2011, Mr. Obama's withdrawal of all U.S. forces from Iraq gave room for Islamic State to regroup and grow, catalyzing radical groups as far away as Nigeria and the Philippines.

"Obama made a professorial, intellectual case for retrenching from the Middle East, and Trump is offering a gutdriven argument for it,"  Emile Hokayem, a Middle East expert at the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London. "Both have the tendency to understate the immediate and mediumterm costs of retrenchment, including the possibility that they  be drawn back in."

America's involvement in the greater Middle East dates back to the country's earliest days  and began with casting aside an ally. The U.S.'s first overseas war was the 180105 campaign against the ruler of Tripoli in today's Libya, Yusuf Karamanli, who interfered with American merchant shipping in the Mediterranean and enslaved captured American sailors. That Barbary War, still celebrated in the opening lines of "The Marines' Hymn" ("To the shores of Tripoli"), sought a 19thcentury form of regime change: replacing Karamanli with his exiled older brother Hamid. After initial battles, however, the U.S. changed tack, abandd Hamid and instead made a deal with Yusuf.

Only after  War II did the U.S. become a dominant power in the Middle East, taking over from the region's former colonial overlords, Britain and France. President Franklin D. Roosevelt's 1945 meeting with Saudi Arabia's King Abdulaziz aboard the USS Quincy in Egypt began a relationship in which the U.S. ensured the kingdom's security in exchange for access to its vast oil reserves. In 1957, in the early days of the Cold War, President Dwight Eisenhower proclaimed the socalled Eisenhower Doctrine that allowed any Middle Eastern nation to ask for American military aid if it feared outside attack. He sent U.S. Marines to Lebanon later that year.

The 1973 war between Israel and its Arab neighbors turned a commitment to the Jewish state's security into another cornerst of America's foreign policy. And in 1980, amid a surge in oil prices and the Iranian hostage crisis, President Jimmy Carter announced his own doctrine, under which the U.S. would repel an "attempt by any outside force to gain control of the Persian Gulf region" by "any means necessary, including military force."

Still, not until Iraq's invasion of Kuwait in 1990 did the U.S. permanently deploy tens of thousands of troops to the region. Their presence in ultraconservative Saudi Arabia, in particular, became a rallying cry for the Islamist extremists who coalesced around Osama bin Laden and al Qaeda.

Following al Qaeda's Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, the U.S. invaded Afghanistan and, in 2003, Iraq   post9/11 wars that have cost trillions of dollars and killed some 7,000 U.S. service members so far. Thousands of American troops remain in both countries today.

Meanwhile, Washington went from striking a nuclear deal with Iran in 2015 under Mr. Obama to abrogating that pact under Mr. Trump and seeming to push for regime change in Tehran  then to once again trying to engage the Iranian regime diplomatically in recent months. And Mr. Trump, despite his recent decision to remove all U.S. forces from northern Syria, is now considering options for leaving about 500 troops there and sending dozens of battle tanks to retain control of oil fields.

For Middle Eastern governments, the whiplash of U.S. policy has left a sense of bewildered chaos. "American allies and America's foes are all totally confused about what the U.S. wants in the region. We don't understand, to be hst with you,"  Iraq's former national security adviser, Mowaffak alRubaie.

On the surface, the arguments for why America should now give less attention to the Middle East, with its violent conflicts and maddeningly complicated alliances, seem compelling. The 1973 oil embargo champid by Arab countries crippled America's economy, but the energy picture has changed dramatically since then: The fracking revolution has turned the U.S. into the 's largest oil power,  that can no longer be easily blackmailed with supply cuts. The Middle East is a relatively small part of today's global economy and  with the exception of Israel  contributes little to the technological revolution transforming the .

"The United States is overinvested in the Middle East,"  Jeremy Shapiro, the research director of the European Council on Foreign Relations in London, who worked in the State Department during the Obama administration. "Every day, you see  saying that the U.S. is losing Syria, which may be technically true  but Syria is not worth anything...It serves absolutely no purpose for U.S. foreign policy, and if the Russians and the Turks want to divide Syria, why should the U.S. care about it?"

Debate in the U.S., Mr. Shapiro added, should center on how to properly allocate the country's scarce resources to the Middle East relative to America's other areas of interest, such as East Asia. In an age of increasing bigpower competition, costly commitments to policing the region have come at the expense of the assets needed to confront a rising China and an expansionist Russia.

Mr. Trump, in a recent tweet, pointed to these  global rivals, which seek to reshape the international order at America's expense, as he justified his Syria retreat: "The  most unhappy countries at this move are Russia & China, because they love seeing us bogged down, watching over a quagmire, & spending big dollars to do so."

But there is no avoiding the fact that the Middle East still matters a great deal to U.S. interests. Islamist terror groups with a proven record of bringing devastation to New York, Washington, Paris and London remain a major security concern. In the past, jihadists used havens in Afghanistan, Yemen, Syria and Iraq to plot more ambitious and deadly attacks, including 9/11. Though Islamic State's selfstyled "caliphate" has been dismantled, the extremist movement still hasn't been eliminated  and can bounce back. U.S. intelligence still relies on Middle Eastern partners such as Jordan for counterterrorism cooperation, information sharing and early warnings. Intelligence officials now worry that the hasty American retreat from Syria and the loss of onthe ground information from formerly U.S.allied Kurdish forces may leave Washington in the dark about a comeback of hostile radical groups.

26 Oct 2019 02:32 ET America Can't Escape The Middle East A Violent 2

The 's main shipping lines, the bloodstream of the international economy, run through the region, which is why an impoverished country like Yemen, ravaged by a proxy war between Saudi Arabia and Iran, remains strategically significant. The Middle East's proximity to Europe means that millions more refugees could be on the move if the region spins further into chaos. Nuclear weapons  already possessed by Israel and possibly in the future by Iran, Saudi Arabia and Turkey  add to the mix of global threats.

Another reason may be even more important, however. In other parts of the ,  and leaders are closely watching the fallout from America's behavior in the Middle East  and drawing conclusions that  affect the global balance of power.

Michael Oren, a former Israeli ambassador to Washington who served until earlier this year as a deputy minister in the Israeli government, recalls meeting recently with an American military delegation and telling them: "If you think the United States as a global power can pull out of the Middle East and not endanger itself, you are deluding yourselves. When America withdraws from the Middle East unilaterally, the Russians internalize this and move into Crimea and Ukraine; the Chinese internalize it and move into the South China Sea and beyond in the Pacific." Mr. Oren added, "The Middle East is viewed by the  as a litmus test of American power."

Events in the region are widely viewed as a litmus test of the value of American friendship. Russia, for , is winning the argument that it can be a much more reliable ally. Moscow has stood with its brutal client, Syria's Bashar alAssad, and helped him to win his country's civil war. The U.S., by contrast, has discarded a number of allies, such as Egyptian autocrat Hosni Mubarak amid the prodemocracy protests of 2011.

Mr. Trump's startling decision to abandon the Syrian Kurdish forces, which fought side by side with U.S. troops against Islamic State, has reverberated across the region, held up as yet another example of American treachery. It wasn't the first time that the U.S. sold out the Kurds: As national security adviser, Henry Kissinger encouraged a Kurdish uprising in Iraq just to stand aside in 1975, when the Americanbacked shah of Iran reached a deal with Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein that allowed Iraqi forces to massacre the Kurds.

"No  can ever rely on U.S. promises unless they suffer from amnesia,"  Ertugrul Kurkcu, a leader of the main proKurdish party in Turkey's parliament, the s' Democratic Party, which is allied with the Syrian Kurdish leadership. "Yet betrayal is betrayal, and this time it is committed not from behind the veil but openly and crudely, by the most selfish and greedy president of the U.S. This bitter lesson  always be remembered not only by the Kurds but by the Arabs and the Turks."

While Russia benefits from such U.S. policies, it can gain only so much in the region. "Syria shows that Russia can become a major political player with a rather small investment,"  Yury Barmin of the Moscow Policy Group, a Russian consulting firm. "But nobody in Russia is ready to make huge investments to replace the United States in the Middle East. We just don't have this kind of financial resources."

Whatever their verdict about Mr. Trump's abrupt pullout from Syria, some experts believe that the country was the wrong theater for proving the value of America's global commitments to its allies. "Nations judge their interests based on what they see on the table, not projections of credibility based on events thousands of miles away,"  Robert Ford, a scholar at the Middle East Institute in Washington who served as U.S. ambassador to Syria under Mr. Obama. "If we make American credibility the reason to stay in Syria, we are on a very dangerous slope  the slope that took us to Vietnam in the 1960s, in competition with Russia and China. If lines are to be drawn in the sand, they have to be drawn in places that matter to us."

The U.S. difficulty in doing that in the Middle East has bred uncertainty among both its friends and its foes there. "The   decades, it has been very difficult to read what America really wants to do and how far it wants to go. First it was in a regimechange posture, going into wars without any factual evidence. Then it wants to pivot out and wants to withdraw,"  Mr. Fahmy, the former Egyptian foreign minister. "The problem is that these policies are not just shifting gradually, they are changing day to day. And this creates a political vacuum and instability."



10. Middle East News

U.S. Weighs Leaving More Troops, Sending Battle Tanks to Syria; Options represent a shift from the pullout President Trump wanted and modify U.S. objectives—from countering Islamic State to 
Washington sees the fields as potential leverage in future negotiations over Syria.

"We  NEVER let a reconstituted ISIS have those fields!" Mr. Trump  Thursday in a Twitter message, referring to Islamic State.

The options for tanks and troops, which haven't been decided, were being discussed in Washington as Defense Secretary Mark Esper, in Brussels, urged U.S. allies at a North Atlantic Treaty Organization meeting to respond to Turkey's incursion into Syria[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/usdefensesecretarycallsonadividednatotoreininturkey11571929895] earlier this month.

Mr. Esper's request came amid fissures in the security bloc's approach to the crisis and over the Trump administration's policy shifts. Mr. Trump earlier this month ordered all U.S. troops out of northern Syria, a move that was criticized by Kurdish fighters allied with the U.S. as an abandonment.

Critics say Turkey launched the mission because it believed Mr. Trump greenlighted the move during an Oct. 6 call with Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Mr. Trump  he didn't give a goahead for the assault. The U.S. leader then imposed sanctions on Turkey and threatened to destroy the NATO ally's economy before lifting the sanctions when Turkey announced a ceasefire.

Mr. Esper  he supported a proposal this week by German Defense Minister Annegret KrampKarrenbauer to create an international security z in northern Syria with Russia and Turkey, which have already made their own deal to secure the region.

Ms. KrampKarrenbauer outlined her proposal at the NATO meeting, noting that the RussiaTurkey deal was insufficient to bring longterm peace.

"There are different views," NATO SecretaryGeneral Jens Stoltenberg told reporters Thursday evening. "This was an open and frank discussion among friends and allies. There is strong support for a political solution."

Mr. Trump, after ordering all U.S. forces out of northeastern Syria in early October,  later that he would agree to leave about 200 troops in northeast Syria to safeguard oil fields. The move came after Sen. Lindsey Graham (R., S.C.) outlined the potential importance of the oil.

Mr. Graham suggested in remarks to reporters at the Capitol on Thursday that American troops would end up securing the oil fields. He was among eight to 10 senators briefed by the White House on Thursday.

"There are some plans coming together from the Joint Chiefs that I think may work, that may give us what we need to prevent ISIS from coming back, Iran taking the oil, ISIS from taking the oil," he . "I am somewhat encouraged that a plan is coming about that  meet our core objectives in Syria."

The top U.S. envoy for Syria, James Jeffrey,  in testimony Wednesday before the House Foreign Affairs Committee that the U.S. may hang onto a Syrian airfield. "We do contemplate, I believe, maintaining  of our  airfields that are there," Mr. Jeffrey . The option of sending tanks was earlier reported by Newsweek.

A U.S. Army convoy headed to a U.S. base in Erbil, Iraq, this week after pulling out from their positions in Syria. PHOTO: Manu Brabo for The Wall Street Journal

While the Trump administration's plans for U.S. troops in Syria shifts, so do the plans for what to do with the approximately 1,000 U.S. troops, most of them special operations forces, following Mr. Trump's order to withdraw.

Mr. Esper  over the weekend that most of the troops would go to neighboring Iraq, triggering a pointed reaction from Baghdad, where officials  those troops would only be able to remain for a period of four weeks.

Meeting at NATO headquarters, Mr. Esper criticized Ankara for its assault. "Turkey's unwarranted incursion into northern Syria jeopardizes the gains made there in recent years," Mr. Esper . "Turkey put us all in a terrible situation," he added later.

For NATO, disagreement over how to address Turkey's actions strikes another blow to the unity of an alliance already rocked by Mr. Trump's frequent broadsides over what he says is insufficient military spending by allies. French President Emmanuel Macron—whose country has special forces in northern Syria—has responded with anger over the abrupt U.S. move to withdraw troops from Syria, which he  he learned about on Twitter.

Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has further exasperated NATO allies by deepening his relationship with President Vladimir Putin, including through the purchase of an airdefense system from Russia.

"The direction of Turkey with regard to the alliance is heading in the wrong direction," Mr. Esper .

More Coverage

 Russia Strikes Syrian Rebel Stronghold, Raising Fears of Assad Regime Offensive[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/russiastrikessyrianrebelstrongholdraisingfearsofassadregimeoffensive11571929496]

 Turkey, Russia Start Clock on Kurdish Withdrawal From Northern Syria[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/turkeyrussiastartclockonkurdishwithdrawalfromnorthernsyria11571832745]

 Syrian Conflict Traps Refugees in an Exodus to Nowhere[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/syrianconflicttrapsrefugeesinanexodustonowhere11571761535]



11.


U.K. Police Investigate Bodies Found in Truck  WSJ
 British police are investigating how the bodies of 39  wound up in a truck container at an industrial park near London, reviving longstanding concerns about the reach and practices of criminal trafficking gangs.

Essex police  they opened a murder investigation after an ambulance service alerted them to the discovery at Waterglade Industrial Park in Grays, around 16 miles east of London, shortly before 1:40 a.m. Wednesday. All 39  38 adults and  teenager, according to early indications  were pronounced dead at the scene and the driver, who was from Northern Ireland, was arrested.

Speaking in Parliament, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson  the discovery of the bodies was the result of "an appalling crime."

"All such traders in human beings should be hunted down and brought to justice," he .

Police  they are in the process of identifying the victims. Deputy Chief Constable for Essex Pippa Mills  it would likely be a lengthy process.

Authorities are working to trace the exact route of the container to better understand what happened.

Initially, police  they believed it originated in Bulgaria, an important transshipment point for traffickers, and entered Britain on Oct. 19 at the port of Holyhead in Wales, which serves ferries and other shipping from Dublin. That prompted speculation that the truck had passed through Ireland. Irish Prime Minister Leo Varadkar pledged to help British authorities figure out where it had been.

"It is a real, terrible and human tragedy and we'll carry out any investigations that are necessary if it's established that the truck did pass through Ireland," Mr. Varadkar told lawmakers.

Later in the afternoon, however, police  they believed the trailer traveled from Zeebrugge in Belgium to Purfleet, near Grays, and docked in the area shortly after 12.30 a.m. Wednesday.

The tractor unit is now believed to have traveled from Northern Ireland, and left the port with the container and trailer shortly after 1:05 a.m.

The rig, a Scania, was registered in the Bulgarian seaside city of Varna by a company owned by an Irish citizen, according to the Bulgarian Foreign Ministry.

According to the Bulgarian national radio, the truck left the country on June 20, 2017, a day after it was registered.

"Since the truck was registered, it has never entered Bulgaria again," Bulgarian media reported Prime Minister Boyko Borisov as saying. "There is no way we can be connected with this except via the truck's plates."

The owner of the company has  more trucks registered in Bulgaria, Mr. Borisov .

"This  be a lengthy and complex investigation and we continue to work with local partners and international authorities to gather vital intelligence and identify those who died," Essex police  in a statement.

The incident is likely to refocus attention on criminal gangs trafficking  into Europe and the risks that wouldbe migrants take to begin a new life.

Thousands of  have died attempting to cross the Mediterranean in recent years, according to the International Organization for Migration. Their journeys can be precarious, even if they make it to land.

Earlier this year, six migrants were killed and 10 injured when a vehicle smuggling them through the north of Greece crashed into a ditch.

In 2015, Austrian police found 71 corpses in an abandd delivery truck parked off a highway near Vienna. The victims were from Iraq, Afghanistan and Syria.

In previous years, illegal immigrants from China died trying to enter Britain; 58 Chinese nationals suffocated to death in the back of a lorry at the port of Dover in 2000.

The problem was highlighted further in 2004 when 21 illegal immigrants, again from China, drowned or succumbed to hypothermia when they were cut off by the tide when harvesting cockles in Morecambe Bay in northern England. Police investigations later showed they had entered the country through shipping containers.

Georgi Kantchev in Moscow contributed to this article.

Write to James Hookway at james.hookway@wsj.com

Corrections & Amplifications Morecambe Bay is in northern England. An earlier version of this article misspelled it as Morecombe Bay. (Oct. 23, 2019)




12. Election 2020
Politics
Democrats Criticize Trump on Syria but Offer Few Plans of Their Own; White House candidates are hesitant to spell out their policies toward engagement in the Middle East

WASHINGTON—Democratic presidential contenders are unanimously condemning President Trump's withdrawal[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/housepassesresolutionopposingtrumpswithdrawalofustroopsfromnortheastsyria11571251777] of U.S. troops from Syria, calling the decision a reckless move that undermines allies in the region while emboldening adversaries.

But when pressed to detail an alternate strategy in Syria, the candidates are hesitant to spell out what their policies toward engagement in the Middle East would entail.

Amid renewed a debate over America's footprint in the Mideast[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/ustroopwithdrawalupendssyriapolicyleavingasearchforsolutions11571146202], Democrats seeking the White House in 2020 are decrying Mr. Trump's

abrupt drawdown of roughly 100 troops[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/americantroopstowithdrawfromnorthernsyriaaheadofturkishincursion11570421205] from northeast Syria, while agreeing with his underlying impulse to reduce U.S. troop levels in the region and steer clear of conflicts overseas.

SHARE YOUR THOUGHTS

Should President Trump be doing something differently in Syria? Why or why not? Join the conversation below.

"As president, I  tell you, I  always take any threat to our security very seriously and do what is necessary to avert any threat to our nation's security," California Sen. Kamala Harris  following a campaign event in Tipton, Iowa,  week. "But I can't tell you what the circumstances  be when I'm elected."

Asked if there was still a role for U.S. troops in the region, Ms. Harris : "I don't know. I don't know. Because it is that unpredictable with Donald Trump."

The Syrian drawdown has faced bipartisan pushback from lawmakers[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/trumpsforeignpolicyfacesrivalplansincongress11571665239] in Washington, many of whom say it marked an abandonment of Kurdish allies who participated in the fight against Islamic State. The decision paved the way for Turkey's incursion into northeast Syria, has strengthened the hand of terrorists and casts doubt on America's reliability[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/ustroopscrossintoiraqastheywithdrawfromsyria11571649101] as a military partner, critics say. And despite the president's vow to reduce U.S. military involvement overseas, there are more troops in the Mideast than when he took office.

Minnesota Sen. Amy Klobuchar says the U.S. shouldn't have withdrawn troops "before we had a responsible and enforceable plan in place that protected our Kurdish allies and prevented ISIS from regrouping."

But the role of U.S. troops in the region moving forward, she , would be contingent upon whether military commanders and experts "conclude that troops in northeast Syria are providing security to our allies and partners and countering threats to our national security."

The Wall Street Journal reached out to all of the 2020 Democratic campaigns for more specifics on how the candidates would approach the yearslong civil war in Syria, and in what capacity the U.S. should engage militarily in the region. Seven of the 19 responded.

Tommy Vietor, who served as the National Security Council's spokesman under President Obama,  politicians have grown warweary following nearly  decades of military engagement in the Middle East.

"Politically, a lot of this is coming from a lingering understanding that the war in Iraq was  of the biggest strategic disasters in our country's history," Mr. Vietor .

Democrats' position on foreign policy is reminiscent of their dilemma with Mr. Trump on trade. Many in the field agree with him that freetrade deals have hurt American workers and that China's strength must be checked. Instead, they have criticized his approach to tariffs or taken issue with provisions in the renegotiated North American Free Trade Agreement.

During  week's Democratic debate, Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren  the U.S. should get out of the Middle East, forcing her campaign to later clarify that she was referring only to combat troops. But the comments reinforced an appetite among progressives to reduce the nation's entanglements overseas.

A spokeswoman for Ms. Warren  the senator "believes that we have important economic and security interests in the Middle East, but 20 years of combat missions in the region have not advanced them."

"As president, she would refocus on realistic goals and use diplomatic, intelligence, and development tools to achieve them,"  Alexis Krieg, a campaign spokeswoman.

Campaigning in Davenport, Iowa,  week, former Vice President Joe Biden delivered a scathing rebuke of U.S. foreign policy under Mr. Trump, while touting his own record as vice president, including negotiating with Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan and the Obama administration's support for U.S.allied Kurds in the region in the fight against Islamic State.

But when Mr. Biden pivoted to how he would address the crisis if elected president, he spoke in general terms of working toward a resolution with NATO allies and providing humanitarian support. At  point, Mr. Biden  there were perhaps no good answers in the region.

"We shouldn't fool ourselves—there may never be a solution in Syria that satisfies our best hope for a region at peace with itself," Mr. Biden . "No  wants American troops to be forever embroiled in conflict in the Middle East or 'nationbuilding.'"

A spokesperson for Mr. Biden's campaign didn't respond when asked if he would reengage U.S. troops in Syria and in what capacity.

A spokesperson for South Bend, Ind., Mayor Pete Buttigieg pointed to a recent interview with NBC, in which the candidate  the U.S. would need to maintain a presence in the Middle East comprised mostly of counterterrorism activities and special operations troops to assist local forces on the ground.

"The way to do it is to stay ahead of these problems, to engage our allies and to lead an international community to promote stability and peace," Mr. Buttigieg , even as he acknowledged "it  be messy for probably as long as I'm alive."

Hawaii Rep. Tulsi Gabbard was among the few candidates who flatly  it was "too late" to send troops back to northeast Syria.

"I've long called for an end to this regimechange war to topple the Syrian government,"  Ms. Gabbard, who was widely criticized for meeting with Syrian President Bashar alAssad in 2017 and subsequently defending his regime. "It has led to hundreds of thousands of deaths, millions of refugees, destabilized Syria and the whole region, strengthened al Qaeda and ISIS and caused immense human suffering."

Ms. Gabbard  the U.S. should, however, remain involved diplomatically and maintain a small number of American special forces "to carry out quickstrike operations against ISIS, al Qaeda and other terrorist organizations."

Polling has shown that while a majority of Americans oppose Mr. Trump's troop withdrawal in Syria, they remain wary of endless fighting in the Middle East. As a result, candidates have often struggled to toe the line between scaling back U.S. involvement overseas and the realities of withdrawing troops from decadeslong conflicts.

Mr. Vietor, the former Obama aide,  the complexities of foreign policy can't easily be distilled into campaign sound bites, leaving little room for nuance.

"Part of the challenge is there's no such thing as a Syria policy because there are actually many priorities and they're often competing," he . "Specificity is not particularly helpful … but it could be politically damaging."

13. 
Russia to Help Turkey Forge Buffer in Syria  WSJ
SOCHI, Russia  Russia agreed to help Turkey drive out Kurdish militias from a "safe z" in northeastern Syria, highlighting Moscow's flourishing ties with a NATO member and a rebalance of power in wartorn Syria as U.S. troops leave.

Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan  he would suspend military action for nearly six days against Kurds who his government views as a terrorist threat to let them evacuate the area. During this period, Russian and Syrian security forces would push any remaining Kurdish fighters away from Turkey's border.

After their departure, Turkey and Russia plan to conduct joint patrols in parts of a 300milelong area along Turkey's border with Syria, Mr. Erdogan  Tuesday after talks with Russian President Vladimir Putin. The pact "could be a turning point," Mr. Putin  in the Black Sea resort town of Sochi.

Russia and Turkey are seeking to divide influence in Syria as U.S. troops pull out and Washington's power in the region wanes. Mr. Putin has displayed a ingness to help Mr. Erdogan, in part to lure Turkey, a member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, toward Russia's orbit.

Russian support for Turkey's plan is likely to upset Syrian President Bashar alAssad's other backer, Iran, which has condemned Turkey's assault against the Syrian Kurds.

President Trump's sudden withdrawal order was criticized by Republican and Democratic senators at a hearing of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee on Tuesday, with many saying the move undermined an array of U.S. foreignpolicy objectives, empowered U.S. foes and undercut the fight against the Islamic State extremist group.

"It is clear that the United States has been sidelined,"  Sen. Bob Menendez (DN.J.), the ranking minority member of the committee. "Russia and the murderous Assad regime are calling the shots."

James Jeffrey, the State Department's special envoy for Syria and the Islamic State fight, defended the policy, saying U.S. was maintaining ties with Kurdish military leaders in other parts of Syria and that options for cooperation were being considered. Mr. Trump has  he wants the U.S. to play a role in safeguarding oil fields.

The PutinErdogan talks coincided with the expiration Tuesday of a fiveday truce. Mr. Erdogan agreed to halt the military offensive he launched in northeastern Syria on Oct. 9 in exchange for a U.S. commitment to help drive Kurdish fighters away from the Syrian border towns of TalAbiad and Ras alAin. The Kurdish forces told the White House on Tuesday that they completed their withdrawal from that area.

In addition to repelling Kurdish fighters, Ankara wants control over territories in northeastern Syria to relocate half of the nearly four million Syrian refugees living in Turkey. But the pact with Washington covers only about a quarter of Mr. Erdogan's proposed 300milelong safe z.

The new accord with Russia covers the other threequarters, according to Mr. Erdogan. After the truce ends, Russia and Turkey  patrol the border strip with a depth of 6.2 miles but won't enter the Kurdishheld town of Qamishli, Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu , where the Assad regime has established a presence.

Mr. Putin reiterated that "Syria must be free from foreign military presence," and invited Turkey, which severed its diplomatic relations with the Assad regime shortly after the beginning of the war, to cooperate with Damascus.

"Both Turkey and Syria have to join their efforts,"  Mr. Putin, who spoke with Mr. Assad on Tuesday, according to Russian state media. "This is why they need to respect each other."

The agreement with Russia is a breakthrough, Metin Gurcan, a retired Turkish military officer , because Moscow is endorsing a solution to Turkey's problem with Kurdish fighters near its border that was long rejected by Washington. "But we  test promises on the field," he cautid, noting that Mr. Putin had kept mum on many details.

The developments came as most of the 1,000 U.S. troops who were allied with Kurdish forces in fighting Islamic State in Syria were leaving the area under orders from Mr. Trump. Civilians in Kurdish areas hurled insults at a U.S. troop convoy that crossed from northern Syria into Iraq on Monday, venting anger over a withdrawal they see as a betrayal.

On Tuesday, Syrian military units moved into several new villages in northeast Syria as part of the agreement with the Kurds, according to Syrian government media. The seven villages lie along the strategic M4 highway, which extends across northern Syria, connecting the city of Hasakah with Aleppo.

Turkish authorities have played down prospects of a direct conflict with Damascus. But Turkey relied on Syrian rebels who fought against the Assad regime as part of its ground incursion in Kurdishheld territories, raising concerns of violent clashes if they come in contact with Syrian regime troops.

Mr. Putin has warned he would only accommodate a limited Turkish incursion in Syria. But Russia is facing its own challenges in Syria, which set the stage for the deal between Turkey and Russia.

In April, Syrian government troops and Russian combat jets launched an offensive to reclaim the northwestern Syrian province of Idlib, the  bastion held by rebels fighting the Assad regime, some of whom are supported by Ankara.  of Russia's objectives is to protect the nearby Khmeimim air base because it has been within firing range from the rebel stronghold.

The confrontation sent half a million  fleeing, forcing them to seek refuge in makeshift camps along the Turkish border. All summer, Mr. Erdogan sounded the alarm over the humanitarian toll in Idlib, and Russia agreed to suspend airstrikes in late August.

With Russia's agreement to help Turkey in its safez project, Turkish officials and analysts  the price to pay  be to let Russia and the Assad regime complete their offensive in Idlib.

"Mr. Putin  definitely put pressure on Mr. Erdogan regarding Idlib,"  Pavel Baev, a professor at the Peace Research Institute Oslo and a former analyst at the Soviet Ministry of Defense.

Mr. Putin has  the offensive in Idlib was legitimate because the province had fallen under the control of radical groups.

Highlighting Idlib's importance in the negotiations, Syrian state media showed Mr. Assad touring the front lines separating government troops from rebel groups in the province. "Erdogan is a robber...He has robbed the factories, wheat and oil, and today he is robbing the land," he  in a statement carried by state media.

Asked  week if such an arrangement would be under consideration in Sochi, Mr. Erdogan  he was satisfied with Russia's adherence to its August ceasefire pledge. Idlib "isn't on my agenda but we can remind each other about this," Mr. Erdogan .

As the ceasefire drew to an end, the flow of Syrians into Iraq increased sharply, according to Tom PeyreCosta, a spokesman for the Norwegian Refugee Council. Within the past 24 hours, 1,736 refugees had arrived, he  Tuesday, bringing the total to 7,135 since the start of the Turkish offensive.

Mr. Trump on Monday authorized $4.5 million in direct support to the Syria Civil Defense, a rescue organization known as the White Helmets, White House press secretary Stephanie Grisham  Tuesday, praising the organization's "important and highly valued work in the country."



14. 
Syrian Kurdish Fighters Tell U.S. They Have Withdrawn From Turkey's Safe Z; Pence received letter Tuesday from Syrian Democratic Forces commander saying his forces had left safe area

WASHINGTON—Kurdish forces have told the Trump administration that they have completed their withdrawal from a safe z along the TurkeySyria border, a senior U.S. official , as required under a temporary truce[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/penceleadsuseffortstohaltturkeyoffensiveinsyria11571308486].

Mazloum Abdi, head of the Kurdishled Syrian Democratic Forces,  in a letter Tuesday to Vice President Mike Pence that the withdrawal had taken place as defined under an agreement[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/kurdsblameturkeyforhinderingexitfromsyrianborderarea11571566257]between the U.S. and Turkey  week.

The letter came hours before the expiration of the fiveday truce, reached in a day of talks  week between Mr. Pence and Turkish President that Recep Tayyip Erdogan.

Turkish officials didn't immediately comment on the Kurdish claim, but the senior U.S. official  Turkey would be entitled to use force if Kurdish forces were still within the safe z.

"If the Turks can find any inside the safe z ... the Turks  either let us know or they  shoot them," the official .

The U.S. is fairly confident that the Kurdish forces are adhering to the agreement, the official , but added the U.S. didn't have means to verify the information.

Most of the 1,000 U.S. troops who were allied with Kurdish forces in fighting Islamic State in Syria are leaving the area under orders from President Trump.

Turkey has been requesting confirmation that the Kurdish forces all have left, the senior U.S. official .

Mr. Erdogan agreed to halt the military offensive he launched in northeastern Syria on Oct. 9 in exchange for a U.S. commitment to help drive Kurdish fighters away from the Turkish border.

In return, the U.S.  it would lift sanctions imposed against Turkey earlier this month as punishment for the assault.

An agreement between Mr. Erdogan and Russian President Vladimir Putin[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/erdoganseeksputinssupporttocarveoutsyrianbufferz11571737838] in talks Tuesday in Russia could affect the status of the ceasefire and the Kurdish presence in the area. The Russian and Turkish leaders agreed on a further ceasefire and on joint patrols.

The U.S. official warned that Turkey would risk sanctions if it were to move beyond the area delineated under the agreement between Washington and Ankara.

The agreement with Washington covers only about a quarter of Mr. Erdogan's proposed 300milelong safe z.

In addition to repelling Kurdish fighters, Ankara wants control over territories in northeastern Syria to relocate half of the nearly four million Syrian refugees living in Turkey.

"Any Turkish kinetic military operations that moves forward at the end of this 120hour period...  lead to us concluding the Turks have violated our agreement, with the inevitable sanctions," the official .

Mr. Trump imposed sanctions[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/presidenttrumptoweighretaliatoryoptionsagainstturkey11571072243] week on three Turkish ministers and  ministries, defense and energy resources. He increased steel tariffs by 50%, after lowering them from that level in May.

A major concern is the fate of Kobani[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/turkeytoallowtransferofiraqikurdishfighterstokobani1413810406], a large ethnicKurdish area in the northeast. The U.S. still has troops in the landing z to the south of Kobani, the official , adding that the Syrian Kurds have  they  not retreat further than the area covered by the agreement.

The official  the Trump administration was still reviewing options for the U.S. troop presence in Syria. In addition leaving some troops to protect oil fields mostly controlled by Kurds in the northeast, the U.S. has a garrison in southern Syria at Al Tanf.

A continued U.S. presence could help keep Syria's oil fields out of Russian hands and maintain a U.S. relationship with the Syrian Kurds, while exerting a modicum of influence in the region as Washington tries to encourage the Turks and the Kurds to maintain their shaky ceasefire.

Any U.S. troop presence would be protected by American air power, officials have .

The U.S. is hoping the fiveday ceasefire  evolve into a more permanent and stable halt in hostilities. Both sides have accused the other of ceasefire violations, but the truce largely has held in the safe z, U.S. officials have .



15. Middle East News

Lebanese Protests Triggered by WhatsApp Tax Rattle Government; Demonstrators blame officials for inciting sectarianism and advancing interests of regional powers

BEIRUT—Thousands of  took to the streets across Lebanon against an intensifying economic crisis in the country, threatening to bring down a government caught between the demands of regional rivals Saudi Arabia and Iran[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/haririwantslebanonkeptoutofthesaudiiranianconflict1515697159].

Friday's protests were triggered by a proposal the government put forward a day earlier to tax  for using WhatsApp, as it tries to generate enough revenue to service its huge debt pile. The rapid withdrawal of the proposal failed to assuage protesters frustrated by the government's failure to rein in corruption.

Activists on motorcycles zipped through the city, chanting antigovernment slogans and urging  to shut down the main highway running through the capital. On Thursday night, they burned barricades built from trash, wood pallets and garbage bins in downtown Beirut, an area popular with tourists.

In response, the government canceled a cabinet session on Friday and dispatched riot police to the streets in case the protests turn violent.

Demonstrators from across the political spectrum called for the coalition government to resign, echoing anticorruption chants heard recently in Iraq and Egypt[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/egyptbracesformoreantisisiprotests11569590168]. The expanding regional outrage over perceived economic mismanagement and government incompetence has served as a reminder of the widespread regional protests during the Arab Spring uprisings of 2011.

At that time, the spark for regional demonstrations was a young Tunisian street vendor who set himself on fire in protest against police officers who routinely stole his fruit. This time, in Lebanon, it was a proposed $6amonth tax on WhatsApp, the popular socialmessaging app.

The protests, which have been largely peaceful, threaten to bring down Prime Minister Saad Hariri, who has struggled to balance competing demands emanating from Saudi Arabia and Iran. Riyadh supports Mr. Hariri and his largely Sunni Muslim party, while Tehran backs the Shiite Hezbollah group, which is part of the coalition government. The Trump administration is increasing pressure on Lebanon to contain Iran's influence in the country.

Mr. Hariri tried to address the protesters' concerns on live TV Friday evening, promising to take action soon.

"I give myself a short period, which is 72 hours, for my partners to give me an answer that convinces me and convinces those who are expressing anger and the international community," the prime minister . "Otherwise the conversation  change."

Demonstrators blamed officials for inciting sectarianism and advancing the interest of regional powers at the expense of the Lebanese .

The Saudi Embassy in Lebanon  on Twitter it would evacuate its citizens.

Protesters in Beirut chanted slogans heard across the Arab .

"The  want the downfall of the regime," they repeated as they marched through Beirut's streets, echoing chants heard in Iraq and Egypt in recent weeks that have been met with severe government crackdowns.

Chief among Beirut's woes is a currency crunch and shortage of U.S. dollars. The peg of the Lebanese lira to the U.S. dollar, which has endured for more than  decades, appears to be faltering. In the black market, conversion rates have g up as high as 1,650 to the dollar, compared with the official rate of 1,507.

More than  million Syrian refugees have stretched Lebanon's infrastructure to its limit. To make up for shortages in electricity and water provided by the state, households often have to buy from private suppliers, paying  bills for each utility.

Turkey's incursion in Syria has ensured that Lebanon's refugee crisis  persist as Syria's security conditions grow more unstable[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/fightingflaresinsyriadespitehoursoldceasefire11571390556].

Residents across Lebanon were further outraged earlier this week by the government's inability to quickly contain wildfires that spread through the country's Chouf Mountains.

Officials brought in police riotcontrol trucks with water cannon to contain the fires because firefighting helicopters weren't being properly maintained. Hundreds of  fled their homes and a firefighter was killed while fighting the blaze.

"They spend millions on their fancy trips and all we needed was $400,000 for maintaining the helicopters,"  Redwan Mortada, a retired math teacher who joined the demonstrations on Friday. "They could have given us that at least. They would have even still made my off of it through their commissions."



16. Declarations

Trump's Reckless Rush to Withdraw; The Syria pullout boosts the impression that he's all impulse, blithely operating out of his depth.


 thing I think I've correctly observed about the U.S. military in the 21st century is that its leaders tend to be the  to want to go to war and the  to want to leave it. Political figures operate under public pressures and shifting geopolitical needs and goals; they're surrounded by  who see the  a certain way; they get revved up, and say, "Go, invade." Top military staff have reservations. They've studied the area, know the realities, the history—they have doctorates in it—and don't want to get into anything America can't win cleanly, decisively, relatively quickly. They're skeptics.

In the end the commander in chief makes the decision and they do their constitutional duty. Troops are deployed and perform. They dig in and fight, they're professionals—they commit.

The political figures then decide after a few years—or decades—that it's time to come home. Military leaders are skeptical again. They've been in this thing a while, they're committed to the battle space, they've lost men, they know and care about their allies in the fight, they have a sharp sense of the repercussions of withdrawal. They want more time.

I suspect the current habit of skepticism springs in part from the military's generationslong reckoning with Vietnam. You can see it in Lt. Gen. H.R. McMaster's influential 1997 book, "Dereliction of Duty." "The war in Vietnam was not lost in the field, nor was it lost on the front pages of the New York Times," Donald Trump's second national security adviser writes. "It was lost in Washington, D.C." Responsibility for the failure rested not only with President Lyndon B. Johnson and his civilian advisers but his military advisers, particularly the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Between the lines Gen. McMaster was telling the current military: Don't claim to see lights at the ends of tunnels when you don't really see them, play it straight. Be forthcoming with political leaders—and the public—about "likely costs and consequences."

Anyway, history is human. Military leaders have their ways and biases. But public military opposition to the president's withdrawal of U.S. forces from northern Syria, after a Sunday teleph call with Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, seems to me completely correct. Gen. John Allen, a retired Marine, , "If we were going to draw a circle around a group of American troops who are more important right now to the stabilization of any place on the planet, it's that thousand troops." He  of Turkey's incursion into Syria, "This is just chaos." Retired Adm. James Stavridis  it  lead to the comeback of ISIS and embolden other U.S. adversaries. He noted that it's some kind of policy that can unite, in opposition, Sens. Lindsey Graham and Bernie Sanders.



More compelling is what Jennifer Griffin, the respected nationalsecurity correspondent for Fox News, reported Wednesday night. She spoke to a "distraught" U.S. Special Forces soldier on the ground alongside the Kurdish forces that were about to be abandd. "It was  of the hardest ph calls I have ever taken," she tweeted. The soldier told her "I am ashamed for the first time in my career." He , "There was no threat to the Turks—n—from this side of the border." The Kurds, who are guarding thousands of ISIS prisrs, had just prevented a prison break and were pleading for U.S. support. Without it, the soldier , those detainees would likely soon be free. Of the president: "He doesn't understand the problem. He doesn't understand the repercussions to this." "It's a shame," he added. "The Kurds are standing by us. No other partner I have ever dealt with would stand by us."

I believe every word of this.

Why this decision? Why now?

To redeem a campaign pledge with another campaign looming? On impulse? What was behind the impulse? The president doesn't seem to know much about the Kurds—that they've backed the U.S. since 2003 and fought ISIS since 2011. They have their reasons: They want their own state. But they are a gallant , brave and sympathetic to the West.

The president, defending this decision, asked what we owe them. "They didn't help us in the Second  War, at Normandy for example."

Yes, I forgot. Reagan made that point in his Pointe du Hoc speech. He , "Don't forget to stick it to the Kurds for not showing up." Oh wait, he didn't say that, because he was quite the reader of history.

Mr. Trump, in defending his position, says he is against the "endless wars" that have marked the first  decades of this century. Fair and good, the right approach, he ran for president opposing them and Americans left and right agreed.

But there is too much craziness to the decision, both its substance and how it was made. The area has been functioning, the number of U.S. troops small and limited. Adm. Stavridis called it "a small investment with a big spring to it."

The decision was d on the word of Mr. Erdogan, a particular kind of player—thuggish, duplicitous. He considers the Kurds on his border a security threat. He threatens to send Syrian refugees to Europe if European countries call his incursion an occupation. If they insult him like that, "We  open the gates and send 3.6 million refugees your way."

Mr. Trump himself says if the ISIS terrorists the Kurds are holding in prison are freed or escape, no worry. "They're going to be escaping to Europe," he . "They want to go back to their homes."

That's a viciously careless way to treat your allies. Who, by the way, were at Normandy.

Most unsettling was the president's mad tweet assuring critics that his decision was right: "If Turkey does anything that I, in my great and unmatched wisdom, consider to be off limits, I  totally destroy and obliterate the Economy of Turkey (I've d before!)." This isn't funny, it's selfinflated nut stuff.

The president is misreading his base, which  have qualms. Their sons and daughters fought in the wars; they know who the Kurds are.

Why would he do such a dramatic, piercing thing at what is for him a dramatic, piercing moment, with impeachment looming and support for it rising in the polls? Why offend Republicans senators, whom the president needs to survive impeachment? Why give them an excuse to start peeling off?

Why give those of his supporters who are cablenews hacks an excuse to show some pride? I'm not a lackey, this is about principle, the president has made a misjudgment! Watch it, they could get in the habit of selfrespect.

The Syria decision contributes to the hardened impression that in foreign policy he's all impulse, blithely operating out of his depth. It adds to the hardening suspicion that in negotiations he's not actually tough; he'll say yes to a lot of things, and some very bad things, to get the deal, the photoop, the triumphant handshake.

Foreignpolicy decisions in this administration look like the ball in a pinball machine in some garish arcade with flashing lights and some frantic guy pushing the levers ping ping ping and thinking he's winning.



17. Turkey Has Legitimate Grievances Against the U.S.


President Trump's critics see his decision to withdraw U.S. forces from northern Syria as the product of a dangerous impulsiveness that ignores strategic realities. They argue that it betrays the 's Protection Units, or YPG, the Kurdish force that helped the U.S. defeat Islamic State, while rewarding a dangerous autocrat, Turkey's President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. But it is Mr. Trump's critics who disregard reality.

Most members of America's foreignpolicy establishment see Turkey as an ungrateful ally, perhaps even a Trojan horse inside the North Atlantic Treaty Organization's walls. On Capitol Hill and in many Washington think tanks, a call for concessions to Tehran  get a more sympathetic hearing than a call to compromise with Ankara, a treaty ally for 67 years. Turkey's determination to secure its southern border against the YPG is a wanton impulse, in the prevailing view. But the YPG has substantial ties to the Kurdistan Workers' Party, the PKK, as thenDefense Secretary Ash Carter testified before Congress in April 2016. Classified by the State Department as a terrorist organization, the PKK has been waging armed struggle against Turkey since 1984 at a cost of tens of thousands of lives, according to the Uppsala Conflict Data Program, a respected source on armed conflict.

Turkey's critics point to Ankara's recent purchase of the S400 airdefense missile system from Russia to confirm their belief that Mr. Erdogan is rupturing the U.S.Turkey relationship. But that's an oversimplification that rests on a lazy assumption  that Mr. Erdogan's personality is the root of the rancor in AmericanTurkish relations. It invokes his authoritarianism, Islamist view, hostility to Israel, sympathy for the Muslim Brotherhood, and opposition to Kurdish nationalists inside and outside Turkey's borders to argue that Turkey is unworthy of U.S. support.

Some articles of this indictment rest on a more solid evidentiary base than others. But the causes of Ankara's recent ingness to defy Washington go beyond  man's personality. Polls reliably indicate that 70% to 80% of Turks regard the U.S. as a hostile power. While antiAmericanism is an old story in Turkey, in recent years it has a sharper edge. Turks increasingly see America as a threat.

This is a remarkable development in a country that had been a stalwart U.S. ally and partner for decades. The levels of hostility to America cannot be laid on Mr. Erdogan's doorstep, for he commands the support of only around 40% of Turks. Dissatisfaction with the U.S. stretches far beyond the president's AK Party.

Why is the U.S. losing Turkey? Turks have their own list of grievances, of which three stand out.

First, America's diffident Syria policy. Ankara followed Washington's lead in backing the Syrian 's attempt to overthrow the dictator Bashar Assad. But when Turkey shot down a Russian combat jet violating its airspace in 2015, President Obama treated the episode more as a bilateral spat between third parties than as a conflict between America's key regional ally and a more powerful adversary of U.S. interests. Left on its own, Ankara realized it had little choice but to accommodate Moscow. Vladimir Putin's steadfastness trumped Mr. Obama's aloofness. Thus was born the relationship that begot the S400 deal.

Second is the curious sympathy that America extends to Fethullah Gulen, a gurulike religious figure who has been residing in Pennsylvania since 1999. The Department of Homeland Security originally denied Mr. Gulen's application for a residence permit under the Bush administration, finding that Mr. Gulen's claims regarding his educational abilities were exaggerated. Mr. Gulen's schools have been investigated for immigration fraud and mismanagement, though no charges have emerged. Figures close to Mr. Gulen have been accused of playing key roles in the July 2016 coup attempt that took the lives of 251 Turks. Though Mr. Gulen condemned the coup and denied any involvement, former followers of his say that his organization is tightly centralized. U.S. experts on Turkey  such as James Jeffrey, a former ambassador to Ankara  say that Mr. Gulen's followers have pursued power in Turkey by infiltrating government bodies. Many Turks doubt Mr. Gulen's supporters could participate in a coup without his blessing. Before taking up his current position as the State Department's point man on Syria, Mr. Jeffrey stated that it is "embarrassing" that Mr. Gulen "is sitting here in the United States." How, many Turks ask, can the U.S. harbor such a despicable figure?

The third misdeed is the most consequential: the Obama administration's decision in 2016 to arm and train YPG members and directly embed American special forces with them. Rather than work with Turkey, the U.S. chose to support the Syrian wing of the PKK, which the Turkish public holds responsible for decades of warfare and tens of thousands of deaths. The PKK represents a grave threat to the Turkish Republic, and Turks across the political spectrum loathe it. To dismiss Ankara's objections to America's arming of the YPG as mere antiKurdish bigotry is ignorant, akin to labeling the fight against al Qaeda as Islamophobia.

The purchase of the S400s and the pressure Mr. Erdogan is placing on U.S. forces in northern Syria provide a way to demonstrate to the broader Turkish public his ingness to defy Washington for its shabby treatment of Turkey and to restore the balance of power between Turkey and the PKK, which American policy inadvertently overturned. For the U.S. to retaliate against Turkey and alienate it permanently would be folly. To do so now  when Mr. Erdogan's support is waning and democracy in Turkey is showing its vibrant face  would hand Mr. Putin a gift he couldn't have dreamed of.


18.

Trump's Jacksonian Syria Withdrawal

Under investigation for impeachment he may be, but President Trump can still shake the  with his tweets. Explaining his decision to pull U.S. troops away from the TurkishSyrian border at the cost of the Kurdishled Syrian Democratic Forces, and open the way for Turkish forces to create what Ankara calls a "safety z," President Trump tweeted early Monday that "it is time for us to get out of these ridiculous Endless Wars, many of them tribal, and bring our soldiers home."

Hitting the capslock button, Mr. Trump went on to restate  of his bedrock beliefs, and a cornerst of Jacksonian foreignpolicy thinking: "WE  ONLY FIGHT WHERE IT IS TO OUR BENEFIT, AND ONLY FIGHT TO WIN." As for concerns that a U.S. withdrawal would allow Islamic State to reform, Mr. Trump was dismissive. "We are 7000 miles away and  crush ISIS again if they come anywhere near us!"

Criticism of Mr. Trump's withdrawal decision has been intense, with prominent supporters like Sen. Lindsey Graham and former officials like Nikki Haley joining longtime oppnts of the White House. Much of that criticism is justified, and the erratic nature of Trumpera policy making, as well as the oftenunpredictable policy mix that results, are undercutting American prestige and influence in much of the . But not all of the problems dogging the Trump administration Middle East policy are caused by Mr. Trump's sometimes idiosyncratic views or policymaking style. As  other news stories from the Middle East  week make clear, the American position in the region is an odd mix of dominance and impotence that makes good policy making hard  and that makes the task of building domestic support for smart policy even harder.

The first development is a success story that underlines how dominant the U.S. has become: Fearing U.S. sanctions, China National Petroleum Corp. has abandd plans for a multibilliondollar investment in Iran's South Pars gas field. This is part of a broader Chinese retreat from Iran in the face of American pressure; the Middle Kingdom isn't yet ready to challenge the U.S. in the Middle East.

The second development  the violent protests shaking Iraq  tells us something equally important. The U.S. may be the paramount power in the region, but nobody has a solution to the developmental and political crisis that continues to destabilize too many countries across the Middle East.

In Iraq there is no political party or social movement with the vision, discipline and competence to create the kind of country the protesters say they want. Iraq's politicians can't deliver the goods. Nor can its civil society, military or religious leadership. More, the U.S., the European Union and the international financial institutions engaged in Iraq don't know how to bridge the gap between the aspirations of the Iraqi  and the shambles of the nation's political life. The "reforms" a desperate Iraqi government is proposing in hope of quieting the unrest  mostly make things worse. Parliament Speaker Mohammed alHalbousi has promised, for example, to place every Iraqi with a master's degree or above on the Education Ministry's payroll. Such measures would degrade the country's finances, tighten the grip on power of corrupt political parties and block the kinds of change that might someday put Iraq on the road to success.

Iraq isn't the only country in the region that is trapped in a cycle of dysfunctional governance and blocked development. The forces that produced the Arab Spring  and those that frustrated it  remain at work in the region. Until and unless a path opens for serious economic development, the Middle East  continue to produce despotism, revolution, large streams of migrants, and fanatical religious armies and cults.

Mr. Trump isn't the first U.S. president to try to hold America back from a Middle East conflict. President Obama made a similar, and similarly hasty, decision in 2013 when he chose not to respond to Syria's violation of his chemical weapons "red line" with a military strike. Many of the same  criticizing Mr. Trump today criticized Mr. Obama then, and the subsequent course of the Syrian war underlined both the humanitarian and the strategic case against Mr. Obama's decision. Mr. Trump's Syria decision may prove to be a mistake, but it should give the establishment pause that  presidents as different as Messrs. Obama and Trump reached similar conclusions about the political risks in the Middle East.

The U.S. may be the most powerful actor in the region, but it can't resolve the economic and social conflicts that destabilize the Middle East. As long as this is the case, those who want presidents to commit to longterm military engagements, however limited and however advantageous, must expect a skeptical hearing in the Oval Office.



19 With Friends Like the U.S. The Kurds helped to defeat ISIS. Trump leaves them to Erdogan.

President Trump's defeat of Islamic State as a territorial power was a major foreignpolicy success, yet he may now undo it with a retreat from Syria that  signal to U.S. allies that the White House can't be trusted.

That's the risk of Mr. Trump's abrupt decision late Sunday to abandon northern Syria to Turkey. Washington and Ankara had been negotiating to create a buffer z to avoid a conflict there, but on Sunday the White House announced that American forces  cede the area to Turkish troops. Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan is now free to wage war on Syria's Kurds, who were America's most important allies against ISIS.

Mr. Erdogan says the U.S.armed Kurdish fighters in Syria, known as the YPG, have ties to the Kurdistan Workers' Party, a domestic Kurdish insurgency within Turkey. On that exaggerated claim he justifies an exercise that could amount to ethnic cleansing. Mr. Erdogan  month proposed a "safe z" extending some 20 miles into Syria from the Turkish border, where he would resettle millions of Syrian refugees. This could require the forcible resettlement, or worse, of Kurds already living in the area.

Mr. Erdogan seems to have believed that the U.S. would help in this exercise. But after a ph call with the Turkish strongman, Mr. Trump made clear that Turkey is on its own. That means so are the Kurds, and the U.S. withdrew its troops from  border posts. A Kurdish spokesman tweeted, "We are not expecting the US to protect NE #Syria. But  here are owed an explanation."

This looks like a betrayal of the YPG, which lost 11,000 soldiers fighting against ISIS. America armed the Kurds in that fight, and they trusted the U.S. when they were asked to dismantle defensive positions near the Turkish border as part of the bufferz negotiations with Ankara. The Kurds are less likely to aid an insurgency in Turkey if they're allowed to govern themselves in a safe area in Syria policed by the U.S. and Turkey.

Mr. Trump compounded the injury with insult when he tweeted Monday morning that the "Kurds fought with us, but were paid massive amounts of my and equipment to do so." For Mr. Trump, foreign policy is always a transaction, never a matter of principle.

The Kurds have taken on the role of jailer of  resort for the thousands of captured ISIS fighters no  else wants to house. It's not clear who, if any,  assume that responsibility now that the U.S. is withdrawing.

The White House says Mr. Erdogan is now responsible for all ISIS fighters in the region, but he can't be trusted given his record of using refugees as bargaining chips with Western Europe. Released European ISIS recruits could disperse to form cells in the region or find their way back to Europe. There's the practical question of how to transfer control of prison camps from the Kurds to Turkish troops waging war against them.

Under heavy criticism from even friends in Congress, Mr. Trump tweeted later on Monday that he'd "totally destroy and obliterate the Economy of Turkey" if Mr. Erdogan does anything "off limits." Administration sources say this is a warning to Mr. Erdogan not to massacre the Kurds or free ISIS prisrs, at the risk of U.S. economic sanctions.

But Mr. Erdogan knows Mr. Trump badly wants out of the Middle East and might call the American's bluff. "It is time for us to get out of these ridiculous Endless Wars," Mr. Trump tweeted Monday. Mr. Erdogan could choose to slowly strangle the Kurds, figuring that won't be enough to trigger Mr. Trump's sanctions on a NATO ally. Washington can at least deny Turkish jet fighters airspace over Kurdish areas, which would raise the costs for Mr. Erdogan of a fullscale invasion.

Like Barack Obama, Mr. Trump thinks he can wash his hands of Syria at little cost. But the resulting vacuum allowed ISIS to grow, Russia to intervene, and now Iran to establish its proxies on Israel's border. Within three years U.S. troops were back on the ground.

Mr. Obama left Mr. Trump with a bad Syria hand, but the President risks making the same mistake. Economic sanctions won't deflect White House blame for a Kurdish bloodbath. And if ISIS revives, the U.S.  have to go back in—this time without Kurdish allies on the ground. Mr. Trump may want to leave the Middle East, but chaos there  follow him home.




20. Trump and the 'Globalists'

President Trump at the United Nations this week elaborated on his longrunning antagonism toward globalism. "The future does not belong to globalists," Mr. Trump . "The future belongs to patriots. The future belongs to sovereign and independent nations who protect their citizens, respect their neighbors, and honor the differences that make each country special and unique."

There is merit to these concerns, but I think the critics of "globalism," including most prominently Mr. Trump, underestimate the nearterm danger of the serious difficulties appearing today in national democratic governance.

Democracies maintain their legitimacy in the public's eye only if they demonstrate a reasonable capacity to address society's inevitably complex challenges. Especially now, with Xi Jinping in China and Vladimir Putin in Russia and even Iran's Hassan Rouhani actively offering as an alternative model the administrative state on authoritarian steroids.

Democracies always struggle to perform, but it's clear that many of the 21st century's independent nations are having a remarkably difficult time executing their sovereign responsibilities.

Starting here. Congress, the more than 230yearold legislative branch of the U.S. government, is deadlocked, with even the passage of a national budget becoming impossible.

Defuse the U.S. entitlement bombs? Forget it. Infrastructure? Too complicated. Republican House members, in the minority, are quitting, and who can blame them for abandoning a lowsatisfaction job?

The antiTrump obsession has created a degree of political bitterness and polarization that is killing the possibility of normal governance. Instead of passing the trade deal with Mexico and Canada, the House  wallow in impeachment mud the next 13 months.

Elsewhere, the month of October is bookended with  major crises in governance. Oct. 31 is the nominal dropdead date for the United Kingdom's scheduled departure from the European Union, unless Parliament kicks the beatup Brexit can down another back alley. The U.K. has arrived at the spectacle of opposition parties resisting a national election.

But the more significant October event is less than a week off  Tuesday's 70th anniversary of the founding of the 's Republic of China. President Xi Jinping, unelected successor to the regime's founder, Mao Zedong, no doubt has celebrations of communism planned for all 1.3 billion of his country's . The  of Hong Kong won't be attending.

They  be in the streets, as they have been every weekend for months, putting their lives at risk to get what we're supposed to believe many Americans now say isn't our problem  democracy building.

In fact, Hong Kong is ground zero in the ideological struggle between government by independent s and the China model of dowhatyou'retold governance.

The Chinese model survives with mass surveillance and unappealable criminal prosecutions, which would have been extended to Hong Kong by the extradition bill that caused the demonstrations.

Hong Kong's protests prove that no free  would voluntarily opt in to the Chinese Communist Party system. But China's control model could still prevail. The Chinese and Mr. Putin have the patience to wait until their sovereign nationstate rivals exhaust the assent of their frustrated populations.

When massive flows of refugee migrants from Syria and North Africa entered Europe in 2015, the member nations of the EU proved incapable of fashioning an effective response. Publics lost faith in their governments' political competence, which produced significant support for fringe parties in the EU's elections  May.

The U.S. Congress has lost its capacity to rationalize the immigration laws, so the mess festers on the border. In Europe and in the U.S., the vast revenue needs of the welfareentitlement state are suppressing policy options to improve economic opportunity for younger generations or pay for future national security.

Mr. Trump's concerns about undemocratic governance by remote international bureaucracies are plausible, but the greater threat is more imminent. If the expansion of an increasingly dysfunctional administrative state inside the 's sovereign democracies is inexorable and unreformable, the future  belong to China's brand of administrative authoritarianism. The default option for disgusted and "sovereign"  could be a desire simply to get things d by fiat.

Arguably, Elizabeth Warren and her multiple plans  heavily dependent on criminal prosecutions and intense oversight  is flirting with a milder version of this future. With Congress in polarized decline, both the Obama and Trump presidencies have governed heavily by executive order, which could be described as a slow slide toward soft authoritarianism. Some on the left and right would probably be fine with that.

"If you want freedom," Mr. Trump told the U.N., "take pride in your country. If you want democracy, hold on to your sovereignty." Holding on to a nation's identity is important. But national pride won't matter much if democratic governance degrades into ineffectuality.



21. 
Syrians Rely on Old Habits to Stay Free in Turkey  WSJ


ISTANBUL  Every evening when Muhammad Hamdoun gets off work, he scans the street as he walks the few blocks to the bus station, trying to blend in with the Turkish  around him and avoid police who might identify him as a Syrian refugee.

To evade arrest for having a residency card registered in another province, Mr. Hamdoun has adopted precautions he first hd as an antigovernment activist in Syria. Like many of his compatriots in Istanbul, he takes detours to avoid checkpoints, dresses in a way that doesn't stand out and is cautious when speaking on the ph or even at home, wary of who might be listening.

"We're using the same tactics we learned in Syria,"  the 22yearold photographer, who still bears scars on his arm and stomach from a mortar strike. "It seems our fate to always be hunted."

For many Syrian refugees without proper documents in Turkey's economic hub, life has become a catandmouse trial to avoid a dire fate: deportation to Syria. That prospect has become increasingly real, as Turkey's government pulls away the welcome mat it once extended to those fleeing the war next door.

Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, after experiencing a drop in popularity attributed to the refugee issue, has vowed "to accelerate the return of Syrian refugees to their homes."  week, he  Turkey would send back a million of the nearly four million Syrians in the country.

Turkish officials  month began stepping up identity checks in Istanbul on Syrian refugees, who are required to carry temporary residency cards registered in specific provinces. Those found to be not registered here or to be among the estimated halfmillion Syrians lacking Turkish papers entirely have either been sent to another province or deported back to Syria.

More than 6,200 Syrians were deported back to northern Syria during  month's crackdown, according to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights. Among those deported were  with valid residency cards who had been found guilty of code violations or crimes, according to the U.K.based monitoring group.

What's happening in Turkey is part of the broader political crosscurrents Syrian refugees now face in the Middle East and Europe. Some countries have grown tired of hosting displaced communities and in some cases have turned against them. Lebanon has deported more than 2,700 Syrians since May, according to Human Rights Watch, and many more have g back because the country feels increasingly hostile to them.

But for most Syrians who fled their country's conflict, returning is a chilling prospect. They fear being arrested by the government of President Bashar alAssad, whose forces have recaptured large parts of the country with Russian and Iranian help. Even when Syrians are returned to areas controlled by the country's weakened opposition, they face insecurity and continuing attacks by government forces, such as the military campaign against rebels in the northwestern Idlib province.

 year, Ward Mardini, her husband and their  young children were among thousands evacuated from an eastern suburb of Syria's capital, Damascus, after surviving years of siege, bombardment and a chemicalweapons attack.

When the family arrived in Turkey a few months later, having been smuggled across the mountainous border, Ms. Mardini adopted the Turkish style of head scarf  wrapped high in the back and jutting out along the sides of the face. When Turkish officials began their crackdown, the practice allowed her to move around the city largely unnoticed.

But it didn't help her when police knocked on the door of her family's Istanbul apartment late  night and demanded to see their documents. Ms. Mardini feared her 4yearold son would get scared upon seeing them, remembering being detained on the Turkish border  year when they crossed illegally.

The 26yearold and her husband have residency cards registered in the city of Bursa, where there aren't many jobs available. But just days before the police showed up, Ms. Mardini and her family had been granted a travel permit allowing them to travel freely inside Turkey. The permit expires in October. Ms. Mardini has applied for asylum in France, hoping they get accepted before the Turkish police come knocking again.

"I can't return to a war z," she , glancing at those around her at a street cafe to see if they were listening to her conversation. "If it was just me I could bear it but I have  kids and I have to secure for them a better life than I have lived."

For many, movement within this city has become measured and calculated.

Early during the uprising against the Syrian regime, activists created WhatsApp message groups to send out warnings about army checkpoints or security raids. Now they send similar alerts about patrols in Istanbul and neighborhoods to avoid,  Abdulqader Laheeb, a Syrian journalist in Istanbul.

On a recent evening at a bus station, Mr. Hamdoun's eyes darted back and forth through the crowds until he spotted a police officer in a bulletproof vest. The officer was walking away from him but even so, Mr. Hamdoun kept his eyes on him, fearing he would suddenly turn around.

Another Syrian man walked hurriedly behind Mr, Hamdoun, speaking into his ph headset to another person: "If the security finds you, it could be a big fine."

Mr. Hamdoun smiled. "It's the talk on every's lips," he .

When he leaves his home  just to buy bread from a store down the street  Mr. Hamdoun brings his residency documents with him.

On his days off he mostly stays home, but if he does venture out he wears shorts above the knee  an item of clothing not many Syrians, who tend to be more conservative than Turks, would wear.

When Fares, a waiter at a restaurant, first spotted a police officer on the tram during his commute, he realized it was no longer safe. So he began taking taxis to work and back. That mode of transportation became expensive  and risky too. Taxi drivers began occasionally questioning Syrian passengers about where they were registered.

He has lived in Turkey for four years, and his residency card is registered in the southern province of Hatay, where he says there are no jobs.

On Aug. 19 he moved out of his apartment and into a spare room in the basement of the restaurant where he works. The room, shared with another Syrian refugee who decided commuting was too dangerous, is across the hall from the noisy kitchen. They sleep there on sofa cushions taken from the restaurant and hang their clothes to dry on a rack.

"It was very hard at first, I couldn't sleep," he . "But I was afraid they would deport me to Idlib; that's a much bigger problem."


