
1.
Migrants Kept In Mexico Face Gang Threats And Violence  WSJ


NUEVO LAREDO, Mexico  Every morning, Lorenzo Ortíz, a Baptist pastor who lives in Texas, drives a 12seat passenger van packed with food and blankets across the border to pick up migrants who have been dropped off in Mexico and ferry them to shelters.

His mission is to keep the migrants safe from organized crime groups that prowl the streets of this violent Mexican border town. Since the Trump administration began implementing its Migrant Protection Protocols program at the start of 2019  widely known as Remain in Mexico  some 54,000 migrants, mostly from Central America, have been sent back to northern Mexico to wait while their asylum claims are processed. Mexico's government is helping implement it.

But in cities like Nuevo Laredo, migrants are sitting ducks. Over the years, thousands have reported being threatened, extorted or kidnapped by criminal groups, who prey upon asylum seekers at bus stations and other public spaces.

"Over the  year, it's gotten really bad," Mr. Ortíz .

A typical scheme involves kidnapping migrants and holding them until a relative in the U.S. wires money, typically thousands of dollars, in ransom money. Gangs have attacked shelters and even some Mexican clergy members who help migrants.

There have been 636 reported cases of kidnapping, rape, torture and other violent crimes against migrants returned to Mexico under Remain in Mexico, according to Human Rights First, which interviews victims in border cities and advocates for migrants' due process rights. At least 138 of these incidents involved kidnappings of children.

Many more cases of extortion and violence go unreported for fear of retribution. As more migrants are returned to dangerous areas such as Nuevo Laredo under Remain in Mexico, the situation is expected to worsen, the nonprofit Human Rights Firstin a recent report.

The Mexican government has played down the violence. Foreign Minister Marcelo Ebrard recently acknowledged kidnapping incidents, but that "it's not a massive number." Only 20 such cases have been investigated by the government, he added.

The Trump administration has credited the program with deterring migrants from attempting to cross into the U.S. Monthly apprehensions of migrants at the U.S. Southern border have plunged from more than 144,000 in May to 33,500 in November. The Remain in Mexico program was expanded in June.

On a recent visit to the border, acting Department of Homeland Security Secretary Chad Wolf the program has been a "game changer" for U.S. Customs and Border Protection officers because it has freed them from having to perform humanitarian duties.

But Mr. Ortíz's daily commute back and forth over the border highlights what migrants' advocates say is a key element of the program  it isolates migrants not only from the legal counsel they need to argue their asylum claims, but from resources like food, shelter and medical care that are abundant on the U.S. side, but near nonexistent in Mexico.

"You have all this infrastructure to help feed and clothe and house   set up on this side, in Laredo and Del Rio and Eagle Pass, and then suddenly the administration changes the policy, and you have to send it all to Mexico, because now everyone is on the other side," Denise LaRock, a Catholic Sister who helps distribute donations to asylum seekers through the nonprofit Interfaith Welcome Coalition. Mexico has been unable to provide enough safe shelter and other resources to migrants.

In Matamoros, another large recipient of asylum seekers under the program across the border from Brownsville, Texas, a tent city of more than 3,000   has sprung up. Migrants there have complained of overcrowding, unsanitary conditions and insufficient medical treatment. In November, a migrant from El Salvador was murdered in Tijuana, opposite San Diego, while waiting with his wife and  children for an asylum hearing under the Remain in Mexico program.

On a recent, brisklycold Wednesday, Mr. Ortíz, dressed in a ski vest and a baseball cap with the logo of the U.S. Chaplain International Association, picked up six migrants, including  children aged 8 and 14, at the immigration office in Nuevo Laredo. All were from El Salvador, Guatemala or Honduras, and were returning from legal appointments in the U.S. Hearings take place in makeshift courts set up in tents in Laredo, just across the bridge over the Rio Grande that separates the  cities.

At the front door of the office, six young men sat idly around a motorcycle, hats pulled low over their heads, watching the scene unfold, periodically walking up to the church van and peering in. Mr. Ortíz these men were "hawks" or lookouts for criminal gangs.

"They know who I am, I know who they are," he . "You have to know everyone to do this work. The cartels respect the church. I've driven all around Nuevo Laredo in this van, full of migrants, and they never mess with me."

Atpoint  of the lookouts asked the pastor for some food. He gave them  boxes of sandwich cookies. They clapped him on the shoulder, eating the treats as they walked back to their observation post.

Mr. Ortíz, a native of central Mexico, came to the U.S. at age 15 and eventually built a small contracting business in Texas. He became an ordained Baptist minister about a decade ago and three years ago began ministering to migrants full time. This year, he converted several rooms of his home in Laredo, Texas, into a dormitory for migrants and built men's and women's showers in his backyard.

After picking up the migrants, Mr. Ortíz ferried the group to an unmarked safe house with a chainlocked door on a busy street in the center of Nuevo Laredo, Mexico.

Inside, about 90 migrant families crowded into rows of cots set up in a handful of bedrooms and a concrete back patio. Among the Central Americans are migrants from Peru, Congo, Haiti, Angola and Venezuela.

Reports of migrant kidnappings have increased since the Remain in Mexico program began, Mr. Ortíz . In September, armed men stormed the safe house of  that the pastor brings migrants to  and detained the shelter's staff for about an hour.

Since then, Mr. Ortíz , the volunteer staff has stopped allowing migrants to leave the house unaccompanied, even to buy milk for young children at a nearby store.

Rosa Asencio, a schoolteacher fleeing criminal gangs in El Salvador and traveling with her  children ages 4 and 7, was returned to Nuevo Laredo under Remain in Mexico. She says she hasn't been outside the shelter for nearly three weeks. "They can kidnap you anywhere," she .

María Mazariegos, an Honduran housekeeper, she was kidnapped along with her 12yearold daughter Alexandra from the bus station in Nuevo Laredo in September.

Gang members held her in a windowless cinderblock room that bore signs of torture for three days withmeal of tortillas and beans. She was released after her family members in the U.S. convinced her captors that they didn't have the money to pay a ransom.

Then,  weeks later, while she was returning from a court appointment in the U.S., a shelter staff member confirmed, another group tried to kidnap her. An escort from the shelter was able to talk the kidnappers out of it.

She has court hearing under Remain in Mexico rules on Jan. 22, where a judge is expected to decide on her asylum case. If she is rejected, she plans to move to the Mexican city of Saltillo, where she has heard there are more jobs and less violence.

"Just about anywhere is better than here," Ms. Mazariegos added.





2.The Weekend Interview with Ivan Simonovis: A Former Top Cop Makes a Daring Escape

Ivan Simonovis is celebrating Christmas as a free man for the first time in 16 years.

A former police commissioner of Caracas, Venezuela, he became a political prisoner in 2004 and spent much of the next decade in a tiny underground cell. In 2014 he was transferred to house arrest, from which he made a daring escape this May. Accomplices spirited him to Florida, where he now lives with his wife, Bony. With her by his side, he tells me in Spanish that he's "trying to adapt to a life of liberty."

Mr. Simonovis, 59, and his familygrown daughters and a brotherinlaw  are enjoying a traditional Venezuelan Christmas feast: hallacas, a dish that resembles tamales, plus bread baked with ham and olives, chickenandpotato salad and papaya pudding. "For sure, this is a meal that very few   in Venezuela  eat this Christmas," he says. Even if the ingredients were available, hyperinflation would make them much too expensive for ordinary citizens.

Mr. Simonovis's story is, in many respects, the story of Venezuela under the Bolivarian socialist regime that has ravaged the country since Hugo Chavez came to power in 1999. The deprivation of freedom has accompanied the destruction of the economy, and the arrest and imprisonment of Mr. Simonovis  initially without warrant or charge  proves that nois immune to the regime's political vendettas.

Ivan Simonovis became a police detective at 21 and eventually came to be a boldface name in Venezuela. He created the country's first SWAT team, the Brigada de Acciones Especiales. In 1998 BAE acquired an international profile whenof its snipers shot dead a gunman who'd taken a woman hostage in the town of Cua, 40 miles from Caracas. "If you type 'BAE Caso Cua' into YouTube," he tells me, "you'll see what happened." The episode was caught on TV cameras. The viewing isn't for the squeamish, but it leaves no doubt BAE knew how to do its job.

He was promoted to head the Office of Operations for the national police. Chavez was elected president in 1999, and a year later the mayor of Caracas asked Mr. Simonovis to run his city's police force. There he established "a professional alliance" with the New York City Police Department, importing many of its methods to the most dangerous parts of Caracas. "We tropicalized the NYPD," he says with a smile. He enlisted the help of Bill Bratton, who had been and would again be New York's police commissioner, as a private consultant. This association would come back to haunt Mr. Simonovis, as the regime later used it to support its contention that he was in the pay of the Central Intelligence Agency.

"This was a turbulent time in Venezuela," Mr. Simonovis says. "Politics was really starting to heat up." Chavez was consolidating his control, but the press was still resilient, and civil society hadn't lost its appetite or capacity to fight. On April 11, 2002, provoked by Chavez's sacking of strikers at Petroleos de Venezuela SA, the national oil monopoly, tens of thousands of demonstrators marched toward the presidential palace demanding his resignation. "His treatment of PdVSA caused consternation," Mr. Simonovis says. "The marchers were angry. There were many there from the middle class, from the nicer parts of the city."

The demonstration sealed Mr. Simonovis's fate. "There was no way to stop the march," he says. As protesters approached the palace, Chavez loyalists confronted them at the Llaguno Overpass. What happened there is fiercely disputed. Mr. Simonovis says that 19 marchers were shot dead and hundreds wounded. "I should add that some proChavez   died, too." As he tells it, the Caracas police  his officers  intervened to halt the mayhem, and that mostly involved protecting the unarmed marchers from proChavez gunfire. Inevitably, the regime accused Mr. Simonovis of siding with the opposition. "That's when the accusations started  that I was CIA," he says. "They wanted a scapegoat for Llaguno."

 months later Mr. Simonovis resigned, fed up with the regime's hostility. He started a security consultancy with clients in Venezuela and the U.S. He worked unmolested until Nov. 22, 2004, when he was arrested at Maracaibo airport on his way to a business trip. "They told me they had to detain me because I was a flight risk," he says. "But this was my fifth trip to the U.S. that year. I always came back to Venezuela after my business was over."

The most renowned cop in Venezuela was flown to Caracas in handcuffs and driven to the headquarters of the Bolivarian National Intelligence Service, known by the Spanish acronym Sebin. "They took me to a cell, 6 feet by 6 feet, subterranean, with no natural light or source of air, concrete floors, no toilet," he says. "I didn't know at the time, but I was to be there for eight years. Until 2012."

He describes his life in jail in simple language, seemingly without rancor. "My trial began a year later, in a court in Maracay, 60 miles from Caracas," he recounts. "For many years, until my trial was over and my sentence was passed, the only time I saw natural light was when they hustled me to Maracay and back."

His trialthree years and four months. "I must have made about 80 trips, woken at the crack of dawn, bundled into a car with tinted windows, where I sat in the middle at the back between  policemen." At Maracay he was taken straight to a cell, then brought out to the kangaroo courtroom, then bundled back into a car and returned to Sebin in Caracas. "I didn't really see much sunlight, but I was aware of it for a few hours each time."

His cell was "full of mosquitoes, with a clunky fan that just churned up the hot air in there." The greasy, dirty food antagonized his stomach. His eyesight deteriorated, as did his bones. Osteoporosis set in. He was never allowed to see a doctor. "A male nurse would come down to see me and the other political prisoners, some bankers and others, from time to time. His verdict always was that I was a 'healthy adult.'"

His wife visited him when the authorities permitted, sometimes with the children. Then she spoke to the press, indignantly describing his treatment. "Whenever she did that," he says, "they punished me. They would curtail her visits. Sometimes, they would confiscate my toothbrush and other items of personal hygiene for weeks, just to degrade me." Afterof Bony's fulminations to the press, he wasn't allowed out of his cell for a month, except fordaily visit to the toilet.

When he first saw his wife and younger daughter, Ivana, after that ordeal, it was in the usual filthy visiting room, "a place crawling with rats. My daughter, then 8, thoughtof the rats was a rabbit, they were so big." Mr. Simonovis was unshaven and cut a figure that frightened the girl. She shrank back, and he reassured her that he was emulating Tom Hanks in the 2000 movie "Cast Away." That film, he says, "really helped me. Especially the Hanks character's idea to set a daily routine to keep sane."

Mr. Simonovis set up his own routine: Exercises  situps, jumps, pushups. Contemplation. Reading. Writing, on paper smuggled in to him by Bony with the complicity of friendly guards. He painstakingly wrote a memoir, "El Prisionero Rojo" ("The Red Prisoner"). "My jailers weren't aware I was writing a book," he says, adding with a chuckle that they found out only once it was published, in 2013, while he was still in captivity. (He's working on a second volume.)

In 2008 the court in Maracay convicted Mr. Simonovis of conspiracy to commit murder and imposed a 30year prison sentence. "The future seemed as bleak," he says, "as the verdict was absurd." Chavez had consolidated his suffocating control. In the tiniest concession, Mr. Simonovis was permitted to go into the sun  for 10 minutes each morning. "Sometimes, it was just five minutes. The men guarding me were occasionally men I knew. It was awkward. Mostly, they were young recruits who didn't know how to deal with a man of my rank."

His condition eased in 2012. He was shifted to a military prison in Ramo Verde, 20 miles southwest of Caracas. There his cell had some natural light and air, and he had occasional visits by a doctor. "They treated me with more dignity here," he says, because his jailers were no longer from the intelligence service.

In 2014, thanks to Bony's tireless efforts, he was moved to house arrest  heaven by comparison. His wife stayed with him in their story, detached Caracas home. "I was permitted visits by close family, but noelse," he says. He had to wear an electronic ankle bracelet at all times, and be available for three random checks a day, when he was photographed as proof of his presence. Often that meant rousting him from bed at 3 a.m.

Yet the security had its vulnerabilities. A police post outside the front gate was "manned by 14 or 15 cops who were bored out of their minds," Mr. Simonovis says. He "set them up with a nice table, an awning to keep out the sun, and a TV connection." They often wandered off "to grab a bite, or to meet sweethearts." Behind the house was a cliff  a sheer, 60foot drop to a road below. There was no police presence there. Who could possibly exit that way?

Mr. Simonovis could. Before daybreak on May 6, 2019, he rappelled from a balcony to the road below. He used gear that had been smuggled into the house over months. A waiting car whisked him to a safe house. His family, by this point living in Germany, were unaware of his escape. For a month, he sneaked fromhideout to another before being driven by friends to a fishing village on the Caribbean coast, opposite the Venezuelan island of Margarita. "We passed several roadblocks from Caracas to the coast, but we weren't stopped." Venezuela's culture of corruption helped: The police were interested only in stopping commercial trucks.

At the village, Mr. Simonovis got into "a creaky motorboat" with a fisherman who'd agreed to ferry him to a "nearby Caribbean island" outside Venezuela. He won't name the island for fear of endangering those who helped him, but he does say they swerved west. "We had bad luck on the way," he says. "The launch developed engine trouble, and a trip that should've taken six hours took 12 instead." When they finally sputtered into their destination, he was met on a desolate coast by accomplices, who drove him to an airfield.

From there a small plane carried him to Fort Lauderdale, Fla., where U.S. immigration agents awaited him. "'Welcome to America,' they , as they took my decadesold passport, which was expired  a museum piece, really. It was the only documentation I had."

Mr. Simonovis is now working with U.S. and interAmerican agencies to build forensic cases against members of the Venezuelan regime who have trafficked drugs and laundered stolen money. "I want nothing more than the freedom of my country," he says, "and to help bring an end to [Nicolas] Maduro," who succeeded Chavez after the latter's death in 2013.

After years of captivity, freedom takes some getting used to. "Sometimes," Mr. Simonovis says, "when I'm driving on the highway, I have to pull over and ask myself, 'Is all this open space for real?'" Unlikely triggers stir his emotions  not all of them as warm as the family's Christmas. "In jail, you can't imagine the value that a single cube of ice has," Mr. Simonovis says. He didn't have any ice for years. "Now, every time I hold a cold glass, I think of jail."



3. Venezuela Leader Weathers Threats to His Rule  WSJ



Once seen as ripe for ouster, Maduro appears in control as street protests fizzle

By Ryan Dube 
This article is being republished as part of our daily reproduction of WSJ.com articles that appeared in the U.S. print edition of The Wall Street Journal (December 9, 2019).

In January, the Trump administration predicted Venezuelan President Nicolás Maduro's imminent downfall as he wrestled with an energized opposition, debilitating U.S. oil sanctions and international isolation after dozens of nations proclaimed his leadership illegitimate.

Today, Mr. Maduro appears in firm control. The opposition is grappling with a corruption scandal and its efforts to rekindle street protests have fallen flat. Venezuela's crisisracked economy is showing subtle signs of improvement. And governments across Latin America are facing their own political turmoil, distracting from onceburgeoning international efforts to remove the Venezuelan strongman from power.

"Maduro is probably feeling better about himself right now than he has in the  several years," Fernando Cutz, a former official of the U.S. National Security Council who worked on policy toward Venezuela. "I am less optimistic right now than I have been in the  three years. I don't see any reason to forecast that 2020  bring positive change for the   of Venezuela."

The rosier outlook for Mr. Maduro underscores the difficulty for the U.S. and its allies in ousting a leader who has control of the armed forces and police and readily uses those forces to repress the opposition. It highlights the excessive optimism of the Trump administration and what critics of the American policy were unrealistic expectations that pressure tactics would easily force Mr. Maduro and his lieutenants from power.

It wasn't supposed to be like this. On Jan. 23, Juan Guaidó, the head of the oppositioncontrolled National Assembly, declared himself interim president. Within days, the U.S. and dozens of other countries recognized him as Venezuela's rightful president over Mr. Maduro, a leftist autocrat accused of fraudulently winning reelection in 2018.

"Nicolás Maduro is a dictator with no legitimate claim to power, and Nicolás Maduro must go," Vice President Mike Pence in April.

Instead, as the months passed, Mr. Maduro hunkered down, and Mr. Guaidó lost momentum as opposition efforts to flip the military and unseat the Venezuelan leader failed. By September,of Mr. Maduro's staunchest adversaries in the U.S. was sidelined with the removal of White House national security adviser John Bolton, who told Latin American leaders in August that Mr. Maduro was "at the end of his rope."

In October, the region was roiled by violent protests in Ecuador, Chile and Bolivia, allowing Mr. Maduro to point to that turmoil to distract from his misrule in Venezuela and the chronic food and medicine shortages it has caused.

Venezuela's economy, which the International Monetary Fund projected would contract by 35% this year, is performing somewhat less dismally than it has been. Crude oil exports rose to 935,000 barrels per day  month, from 637,500 barrels a day in September, according to website TankerTrackers.com, as tankers docked in Venezuela despite U.S. sanctions aimed at crippling its lifeblood industry.

The government has stopped enforcing price and currency controls and eased import restrictions. The economy is getting a boost from 4 million migrants who have fled since 2015 and are now sending back billions of dollars annually for relatives left behind. The government has quietly permitted dollarization to take hold, with many shoppers fortunate enough to have greenbacks spending them freely.

"There's been an upturn," Osman Bolívar, a telecommunications businessman in Valencia who saw a 35% increase in sales at his stores the   months. "One hundred percent of the products that we sell are sold in dollars."

Mr. Bolívar the economy remains dire and he doesn't expect major improvements unless there is a political change  a prospect he sees dimming.

"We've adapted in order to survive," he . "What Guaidó has proposed is just a dream."

Elliott Abrams, the top U.S. envoy to Venezuela, it was "flatly wrong" that the situation was improving for Mr. Maduro or that the opposition was losing momentum. Mr. Abrams pointed to this year's overall decline in oil production, the continuing humanitarian crisis and recent antigovernment protests. He noted that Western Hemisphere countries recently agreed on sanctions against Venezuelan officials to increase pressure on Mr. Maduro.

"If the situation were stabilizing, Russia and China would be lending more money to the regime, knowing it could pay them back," Mr. Abrams told The Wall Street Journal. "Instead they are working hard to get money out now and are committing zero new money, because they know the regime's situation is so precarious."

Within the opposition, however, a corruption scandal is now causing infighting and undermining its claims to being an honest alternative to Mr. Maduro's regime. Earlier this month, Venezuelan news website Armando.info reported that opposition lawmakers, in exchange for alleged kickbacks, lobbied in favor of a businessman under investigation in Colombia for alleged links to the Venezuelan government's corruptionplagued food program.

The nine lawmakers, members of a congressional oversight committee, reportedly wrote letters supporting the businessman to the office of Colombia's attorney general, which is conducting the probe. The website the man has ties to Alex Saab Morán, a Colombian businessman the U.S. indicted in July over accusations he ran global moneylaundering operations that diverted hundreds of millions of dollars of state funds into overseas accounts for the Venezuelan regime.

Mr. Saab's Colombiabased lawyer didn't respond to requests for comment. Mr. Saab has previously denied allegations of corruption.

"All of this really solidifies Maduro," David Smilde, a scholar on Venezuela at Tulane University. "We are seeing a crumbling of this opposition unity that started  January."

Lawmakers from Mr. Maduro's Socialist Party and the president's powerful allies mocked the opposition over the alleged influencepeddling.

"Nois clean in this corruption fight in the opposition," Diosdado Cabello, a top Venezuelan official, wrote on Twitter. "Accusations  come and go between them, they're a society of political mercenaries. This is getting good and we  be victorious."

Mr. Guaidó suspended the accused lawmakers from their congressional responsibilities while opening an investigation into the alleged wrongdoing.

"As a society, we have to say 'enough,'" he , speaking of corruption. "As civil servants who have sworn to protect the Venezuelan  , we can't allow it."

Luis Vicente León, a leading Venezuelan pollster and political analyst, the scandal was sure to undermine trust in the now dispirited opposition and further undercut Mr. Guaidó's approval rating, which had already fallen about 20 points since the start of the year to 40% before the scandal emerged in October.

"There is no way that this won't have a negative political impact," he . "The question is how deep  the negative impact be. You can't separate the image of the opposition from its main leader."


4. News: Watch


Nearlyin four, or 24.6%, of Europeans holds strongly antiSemitic views, according to a poll by a Jewish antihate organization.

Among European Muslims in Western Europe, the incidence of such views was, on average, higher than the general population, according to the AntiDefamation League's study.

A significant proportion of those surveyed agreed with statements that Jews were more loyal to Israel than to their own country, Jews talked too much about the Holocaust, and Jews had too much power in business and finance.

The study comprises 11 questions used to identify antiSemitic attitudes. It surveyed more than 9,000   in 18 countries in Europe, Canada, South Africa, Argentina and Brazil between April and June this year.

The results from Western Europe showed antiSemitic beliefs have remained the same or decreased compared with recent ADL surveys. But the study's creators noted that was a result of   saying they didn't know whether antiSemitic tropes were true, rather than saying they were false.

In Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands and Spain, more than 40% of respondents stated that Jews were more loyal to Israel than to their own countries.

In Poland, antiSemitic attitudes were present in 48% of the population, up from 37% in 2015, when the  survey was conducted. Hungary's overall index score increased from 40% in 2015 to 42%.


Chief Signals Current

Policy Is Working

Bank of Canada Governor Stephen Poloz he thinks the central bank has monetary conditions about right, adding to expectations the bank  leave its key interest rate on hold in December.

Mr. Poloz told an audience in Toronto that global trade conflicts have hurt Canada's exports and investment but the economy is still in a good place overall. Policy makers are watching to see whether traderelated weakness spills over into other parts of the economy, he , including the housing and service sectors.

Several economists the governor's comments reinforced their view that the central bank  stand pat at its next policy announcement on Dec. 4.

Kim Mackrael



VENEZUELA

Students Are Blocked

In March to Base

University students in Venezuela staged a protest calling for an end to President Nicolas Maduro's rule.

A few hundred students on Thursday marched several blocks from the Central University of Venezuela campus in Caracas, but a National Guard blockade cut short their goal of reaching the city's main military base.

Opposition leader Juan Guaido has called for sustained demonstrations to pressure Mr. Maduro from power. The opposition has failed to create momentum and draw large numbers.

Students are calling on the military to abandon Mr. Maduro and join their fight to end the nation's economic and political crisis.

The march Thursday ended peacefully with student leaders handing a petition to military commanders.

Mr. Maduro's ruling socialist party held its own student march.




5.
The deterioration of the City by the Bay has been tragic to watch. From the Tenderloin to MidMarket to the Mission, open use of narcotics is commonplace, homeless encampments dominate public spaces, and human feces dot the sidewalks. The middle class has fled punishing housing costs, and neighborhoods are increasingly plagued with burglaries and property crimes.

 week San Francisco voters , "more, please." Weekend ballot counts clinched the election by a thin margin of farleft public defender Chesa Boudin as district attorney. Mr. Boudin has been described as part of a wave of "progressive prosecutors," like Philadelphia's Larry Krasner, who are winning elections in liberal cities. These prosecutors lecture the public about racism, take an adversarial tone toward police, and often oversee a spike in crime, especially in poor and minority neighborhoods.

The press fixated on the 39yearold Mr. Boudin's "remarkable biography," which it certainly is for a prosecutor. His parents were members of the leftwing terrorist group Weather Underground. They were imprisoned for felony murder for their role perpetrating the Brinks heist of 1981 in which their accomplices gunned down  police officers and a security guard.

Mr. Boudin says rightly that he shouldn't be judged by his parents' actions. Yet he made their incarceration a centerpiece of his campaign, explaining that it showed him the injustice of the criminaljustice system. He rarely if ever expressed sympathy for the murdered officers, and San Francisco's police force was a major target of his campaign. At his election party  week supporters erupted in profane chants about the Police Officers Association.

After college Mr. Boudin moved to Venezuela to work for Hugo Chavez's dictatorship and in 2009 wrote an article hailing Chavez's successful elimination of term limits. A Marxist can in theory faithfully enforce the laws of California, yet Mr. Boudin says he won't. "Crimes such as public camping, offering or soliciting sex, public urination, blocking a sidewalk, etc should not and  not be prosecuted," he in an ACLU candidate questionnaire.

Mr. Boudin has blamed San Francisco's homelessness crisis on evictions and vows to crack down on "corporate landlords." Most homeless are mentally ill and the crisis has grown worse despite the city's massive investment in public housing. Harassing property owners  further increase rents and inequality.

Leftwing prosecutors sometimes denounce overlyaggressive prosecutions when they really want to turn their powers against ideologically disfavored groups. In addition to landlords, Mr. Boudin promises to prosecute Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents if they "kidnap" San Franciscans.

Voters can afford to indulge experiments like Mr. Boudin's partly because they benefit from protection by the federal authorities. U.S. Attorney for Northern California David Anderson in August launched a major initiative to "combat endemic drug trafficking" in the Tenderloin. Yet Mr. Boudin's commitment to turn a blind eye to nonviolent crime  test the limits of livability in remaining middleclass neighborhoods.

Californians look like they're intent on empowering a leftist leadership model that is worsening living standards for all but the most privileged Silicon Valley and Hollywood residents. We hopeday they come to their senses. In the meantime we hope that, in the interest of residents' safety, Mr. Boudin can come to a modus vivendi with the police officers reeling from his radical campaign.



6.Turkey May Go the Way of Venezuela

Turkish citizens are wildly optimistic about the invasion of Syria that began Oct. 9. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan's decision finds broad support within Turkey, including from all the major opposition parties except the proKurdish  's Democratic Party. The incursion is understood domestically not only as a measure to protect the country from the Kurdish forces Mr. Erdogan calls "terrorists," but to affirm Turkey's status as a power; Ankara no longer must bow to the wishes of Washington, Berlin or Moscow.

Then there's the pessimistic view, theI share. The invasion damages Turkey internationally: Western and Arab governments have condemned the military operation, as have the Russian, Iranian, Indian and Chinese governments. Volkswagen paused a planned investment in Turkey, and other companies may follow suit. Congress is weighing economic sanctions. Italy, France and Germany have suspended arms sales. Tensions are heightening between Turks and Kurds in Germany, and  likely rise within Turkey as well.

Though northern Syria's open terrain is favorable to regular forces, Turkey's huge army may not do so well on the battlefield. Mr. Erdogan has purged the officer corps several times in recent years for domestic political reasons. Even if initially routed, the Syrian Kurdish forces could regroup to mount a costly insurgency against the Turkish occupation. Turkey has many regional enemies eager to trip it up. Like many prior wars begun in a flush of jubilation  recall the British youth joyfully enlisting in 1914, confident of returning victorious within weeks  thismay end ingloriously.

Should the military operation go badly, responsibility for the failure  fall squarely on Mr. Erdogan's shoulders. A brilliant politician and Turkey's most consequential leader since Ataturk, Mr. Erdogan has repudiated Ataturk's legacy of socialism, secularism and avoiding foreign military adventures. Instead, for years he oversaw a capitalist economic boom, and he still rules with an Islamist sensibility and a neoOttoman approach to foreign policy. In the nearly 17 years since his party first took Parliament, he has transformed Turkey.

But like other masters of domestic politics  Saddam Hussein comes to mind  Mr. Erdogan wrongly assumes that the cunning and aggression that brought him political success internally  work internationally. This explains his unleashing thugs on the streets of Washington, abducting Turkish citizens accused of coup plotting from multiple countries, attempting to smuggle dualuse materials to Gaza, illegally drilling for natural gas in Cypriot waters, and shooting down a Russian jet fighter, among other bellicose actions.

Mr. Erdogan's foreignpolicy ineptitude has alienated other governments. Europeans seethe when he threatens to send 3.6 million displaced Syrians their way. Israelis despise him for a vitriolic antiZionism that compares them to Nazis. Egypt's president hates Mr. Erdogan's backing of the Muslim Brotherhood. Mr. Erdogan's abject apologies haven't compensated for shooting down the Russian jet. China hasn't forgotten Mr. Erdogan's accusing it of genocide against the Uighurs, despite his silence now.

When the candidate from Mr. Erdogan's AKP party twice lost the Istanbul mayor's race this year, most analysts saw this as a "political earthquake" and a "stunning blow" to Mr. Erdogan, but he remains as dominant and dangerous as ever. A ruthless ideologue, his continued rule could bring to Turkey the political repression, economic collapse, hunger and mass emigration that plague Nicolas Maduro's Venezuela.

I worry about this terrible outcome because Mr. Erdogan has consolidated power over Turkey's institutions: the military, the intelligence services, the police, the judiciary, the banks, the media, the election board, the mosques and the educational system. He has supported the private security company Sadat, which some analysts consider a "shadow" or "private" army. Academics who signed a 2016 petition critical of Mr. Erdogan's policies toward the Kurds have lost their jobs, faced criminal charges and even been jailed. Mr. Erdogan's harebrained theory that high interest rates cause, rather than cure, high inflation has recently done great damage to the economy. The 1,150room palace he had built symbolizes his grandiosity and ambition.

In short, Mr. Erdogan is a dictator with strange ideas, wild ambitions and no restraints. The invasion of Syria has made a domestic and regional tragedy the most likely outcome.

How can the outside prevent catastrophe? By terminating its disgraceful indulgence of Mr. Erdogan. Donald Trump is only the latest politician to fall for his mysterious charms  George W. Bush, Barack Obama and Angela Merkel, among others, preceded him. Mr. Erdogan deserves punishment, not rewards, for his outrageous behavior. His heading a North Atlantic Treaty Organization member country should raise, not lower, the bar.

The U.S. consensus rejecting the Turkish invasion as unacceptable offers an encouraging basis for action. It suggests that Americans can join with others to restrain the rogue Turkish president and help his country avoid becoming another Venezuela. But unless tough action is taken quickly, starting with American leadership to end the Turkish occupation of northern Syria, it  be too late to stop Turkey from becoming a premier international trouble spot.



7.
Venezuela Baseball League Seeks Way Around U.S. Sanctions on Maduro Regime; Teams cut ties to state sponsors blacklisted by U.S. in effort to get MLB players back in action for winter play

Venezuela's baseball league says it has cut all sponsorship ties to its country's government institutions blacklisted by the U.S. in an attempt to find a way around sanctions that prompted Major League Baseball to ban its players from winter ball in the South American country.

The eight teams that make up the Venezuelan Professional Baseball League, or LVBP, agreed in a private meeting on Sept. 17 to sever all financial relations with Venezuela's central government, according to a league resolution that hasn't been made public and was seen by The Wall Street Journal.

The accord calls on teams to remove, from jerseys and stadium billboards, the logos of what had been among LVBP's biggest sponsors: state energy monopoly Petróleos de Venezuela S.A. and the Venezuelan Economic and Social Development Bank.

Both institutions have been sanctioned by the U.S. Treasury Department as part of the U.S.'s ongoing effort to oust [https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/usexpandssanctionsagainstvenezuelaintoanembargo11565053782] authoritarian leader Nicolás Maduro from office. By cutting relations, Venezuelan league officials hope to quell MLB's concerns of running afoul of U.S. government policy. In August American teams prohibited players from participating in Venezuela's Winter League, a popular training ground and income source for major and minorleague players during the U.S. offseason since the early 1950s.

"Venezuela has produced some of the best players in the, and we  do all we can to keep our 73year history alive," a Venezuelan league spokesperson in a statement Friday. Venezuela's league was supposed to kick off Oct. 17 but has been delayed until Nov. 5. Its leaders were in Washington for meetings this week to seek clarity from the U.S. government and the MLB over how to restore the link between both nations' ball leagues.

Under the league agreement, the LVBP it found a way to cut 50% of its budget from the previous year. The addition of small private sponsors for teams  try to fill the hole left by the state companies that had made up about 30% of financing for the LVBP  year.

The new measures mean the Venezuelan season starts next month with the number of games each team  play slashed to 42 from 63. The quota of foreign players required by each team was lowered to six from eight. MLB players who drew big crowds in Venezuela  be replaced by pros from independent Venezuelan leagues.

MLB's ban was a devastating blow for baseballcrazed Venezuela. It was the latest hit for a country reeling from economic depression and spreading hunger that has pushed four million refugees to neighboring nations. The LVBP says that nearly 80% of its players play in the U.S., which has more than 1,000 Venezuelan nationals at all levels of play, second only to the Dominican Republic.

The U.S. major leagues had 68 Venezuelans on 28 teams across the league at the start of the current season.

Both MLB and the Venezuelan league have sought clarification from the U.S. Treasury whether reestablishing ties would be a sanctions violation but haven't gotten a response, according to   familiar with the matter.

"We received the resolution yesterday and are evaluating it with our counsel to determine next steps including seeking further advice from OFAC," a MLB spokesman , referring to the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.

The U.S. Treasury didn't immediately respond to a request for comment.

The Venezuelan baseball league's predicament reflects the challenges for companies and average Venezuelans alike in the wake of the U.S.'s heavy pressure campaign against the Maduro regime. Frequently modified punitive measures have forced many entities to take drastic actions to cut ties with Venezuela and minimize risks.

Earlier this month, Venezuelans were enraged as Adobe and Oracle cut off customers of their software products in the country.

Julio Márquez, a political activist and baseball fanatic, he has watched with a heavy heart as the quality of the game at the Nueva Esparta Stadium on his home island of Margarita—once a thriving tourist attraction—has plummeted in recent years due to the disaster he blames on  decades of government corruption and mismanagement.

He he understood the U.S. league's concern over doing business with their Venezuelan counterparts and had little hope that conditions would improve even if the leagues and the U.S. government were to reach an agreement.

"You can't have night games because there are no lights. There's no running water, nor security and the cost of entry is just too high," Mr. Márquez . "Who's going to assume all of these costs? The quality of the baseball is still going to be bad."

Nevertheless, the resolution drafted by Venezuela's league represents a rare move to separate themselves from an authoritarian government that has exerted control over everything from media to sports organizations. Calls to Venezuela's Ministry of Youth and Sports went unanswered.

For Venezuelan regime officials, the continuation of the nation's top sport has been key in their efforts to display a sense of normalcy in a fastdeteriorating country. Between street demonstrations and a couple of coup attempts in recent years, Mr. Maduro at times appears on state television playing ball with his aides to show they remain comfortably in control.

"We're going to have baseball here, even if we have to play ourselves," Diosdado Cabello, the ruling socialist party's secondmost powerful figure, in late August in response to the MLB ban.

With Venezuela's economic calamity weighing, league officials say they had no choice but to take sponsorship from government institutions  years ago. Now they say they are willing to do everything it takes to keep the game alive.

"The Venezuelan Professional Baseball League is committed to playing baseball this season," the league statement .



8.
The Perilous Road Out of Venezuela  WSJ

A young couple finds how difficult it is to leave; 'I feel like the  violinist on the Titanic'

By Kejal Vyas | Photographs by Oscar B. Castillo for The Wall Street Journal 
This article is being republished as part of our daily reproduction of WSJ.com articles that appeared in the U.S. print edition of The Wall Street Journal (October 3, 2019).

CARACAS, Venezuela  Jonathan Morales and Daliana Loyo were ready to leave. Mr. Morales, a 26yearold chef, had hidden his life savings of $150 inside the waistband of his underwear. Ms. Loyo, a 23yearold nurse, had a grilled eggplant for the trip, packed up by her grandmother. All they carried was  backpacks and a borrowed suitcase.

 dozen members of their families had already abandoned Venezuela. Their remaining relatives  only the very old, who could no longer travel  came to see them off that June day. They took group photos and cracked jokes to ease their sadness.

Visas to Chile in hand, the young couple took their seats on a bus to the Colombian border. Many of their fellow passengers, who hoped to leave for good, were traveling without documents. A 22hour ride stretched in front of them.

Minutes after the bus departed, a man stood up, saying he was from the transportation company. He warned everyone that soldiers tend to board along the route and extort riders. He urged riders to scatter their money and valuables inside their clothes and luggage. He advised some to pretend to be mute.

Migrants are a frequent target of soldiers, and his job was to guide passengers to border crossings and help with paperwork  which could attract unwanted attention.

"If any soldiers get on board," he , "you don't know me. They'll throw me into jail."

Amid political turmoil, violence, food shortages and a disintegrating economy, more than four million Venezuelans have left their country. It is the largest migration crisis in modern Latin American history.

Leaving is difficult, especially as nearby countries have tightened up migration policies. Some Venezuelans take illegal paths, paying off gangs at the border. Soldiers might rob them of the little clothes and money they carry. Travelers with visas can get extorted as well.

Most of those who leave have little money for food and housing. Finding work is difficult. Xenophobia generated by the mass migration has spawned bouts of vigilante justice in Brazil, Peru and elsewhere after locals accused Venezuelans of crimes or of taking local jobs.

Mr. Morales and Ms. Loyo made getting out a priority after they started dating three years ago. They were both working as nurses for a health clinic in eastern Caracas, where they helped save the lives of gunshot victims, heartattack patients and protesters left bloodied by authoritarian President Nicolás Maduro's shock troops during antigovernment demonstrations.

Struggling to survive on salaries that could barely pay for a pound of cheese each month, they came to the conclusion that there was no future in Venezuela.

"My grandparents used to tell me, 'Don't go,' " Ms. Loyo. "Now they say, 'Flee as fast as you can.' "

The day before the bus trip, Mr. Morales went to the cemetery with a rag and a bottle of soapy water and washed the headstone over the grave of his teenage brother, Jhonny, who had been shot dead by gangsters four years ago.

He swept away fallen leaves with a wornout broom and laid down a fistful of marigolds. A short walk away, he tidied the graves of  cousins, both victims of police shootings. Looters had smashed headstones and broken into nearby graves looking for valuables and the human bones used in Santeria religious rituals.

"Everything around me just screams: Get out of here!" he .

Falling apart

Mr. Morales had lived his whole life in a gritty barrio of western Caracas called Caricuao. He followed the advice of his mother, Nanci León, a nurse who told him to study hard and, as she did, get a publicsector job for stability.

The joy of graduating from nursing school was overshadowed by the murders of Jhonny and his  cousins, all in 2015. The oilrich country had once beenof the region's wealthiest, but the economy was quickly falling apart.

Ms. Loyo was raised by her grandparents, Rufino and Daria Loyo, on a farm just east of Caracas after being abandoned by her mother as a child. They grew their own eggplants, passion fruit and plantains, which helped shield them from food shortages.

Venezuela's troubles hit Mr. Morales and Ms. Loyo at their first job. The clinic's emergency room lacked basic medical supplies, so nurses had to pay for their own firstaid kits.

Ms. Loyo spent more on transportation to get to work than she could earn, the equivalent of a few U.S. dollars a month. She barelyhalf a year.

Mr. Morales worked through the deadly demonstrations that roiled the Chacao district in 2017. Mr. Morales calls his work as a medic, plucking out buckshots from the bodies of demonstrators, "my contribution to the country."

By year's end, both began new jobs as homecare nurses for elderly patients in a wealthy part of town. Even there the pay was paltry. Mr. Morales decided to use his little savings to take a culinary course, which got him a job at a cafeteria. The job included lunch, which helped resolve the daily concern of how to get enough to eat.

In June 2018, the couple applied for work visas in Chile at the recommendation of Mr. Morales's older brother, Jeimison, who had emigrated to Santiago.

Each morning for 10 months, Mr. Morales would log onto the Chilean embassy website and check for confirmation their applications were in process, refreshing the page throughout the day. That became challenging as rolling blackouts hit Caricuao, where he shared a cramped apartment with his mother. Their home didn't have water for much of the past  years, so they collected runoff water in buckets from a nearby factory.

In January, the U.S. and dozens of countries declared that the legitimate leader of Venezuela was opposition leader Juan Guaidó, and not Mr. Maduro, whose authoritarian regime has overseen the economic collapse. Mr. Morales, haunted by the bloodied protesters he had treated, questioned whether protests would really trigger change.

"What's the point?" he . "So I can end up dead like so many others?"

Polls by the Caracas firm Datanalisis show that nearly thirds of Venezuelans want to leave the country, and 95% expect living conditions to deteriorate.

Mr. Morales and Ms. Loyo began mapping out an eightday journey by bus and foot to get to Chile without papers, as many family members had done.

Earlier this year, Ms. Loyo had a serious stomach virus. Her treatment cost $50, erasing months of income. "We need to be reborn," she .

In April, Mr. Morales got an email from the Chilean embassy: Their visa application had been approved. Their elation was tempered by the fact that they had no money to pay for the trip. That's where Peggy Christian, 58, a Venezuelan exile in Denver, came in.

Help from abroad

Ms. Christian had worked with Mr. Morales caring for a hospice patient in Caracas before she fled to the U.S. on a visa  years ago. She's among the 43,000 medical personnel  nurses, doctors and hospital technicians  that advocacy groups say have left Venezuela.

Ms. Christian had kept in touch with Mr. Morales from the U.S. When he told her about his ordeal, she offered them a loan to pay for the trip to Santiago.

"What's happening to these youths in Venezuela is the fault of my generation," she . "We never thought things would get this bad."

Ms. Christian she sets aside some of her savings to help former colleagues, even as she deals with her own challenges in the U.S. Unable to obtain certified copies of her university diploma from Venezuela, she hasn't been able to work as a nurse in the U.S. Instead, she works as a nurse's assistant, which pays half as much.

Nor have things gone well for the seven others whose exits Ms. Christian helped finance. Onlyhas found a job as a nurse.

"It breaks my heart every day," Ms. Christian .

Ms. Christian spent $800 to help Mr. Morales and Ms. Loyo travel, purchasing bus tickets to the border of Colombia and then flights to Bogotá; Lima, Peru; and finally Santiago.

Most friends had left Venezuela, so Mr. Morales's farewell party was attended by only  of his college classmates.

"I feel like the  violinist on the Titanic," he at the gathering.

The journey

A tense calm fell over the bus after the transportation company worker told passengers to hide their money.

A woman next to Mr. Morales read the Bible's Book of Exodus. Others tried to sleep, only to be awakened by drips of water leaking from the ceiling or the cockroaches that infested the bus.

The vehicle was silent as it crossed the grassy plains of Venezuela's heartland. With power scarce, the pitch black of the night was interrupted only by the trashcan fires that National Guard troops huddled around. Holding assault rifles, and at times wearing ski masks, they occasionally flagged down buses for random checks.

After about 12 hours, an officer at a checkpoint boarded the bus. Most passengers kept their heads down to avoid attracting attention. The officer inspected national ID cards  and left.

Passengers looked around with smiles as they realized nohad been dragged off. Out of the  dozen checkpoints they passed, it was the only time soldiers boarded the bus.

More officers awaited the travelers at the border. The next day, the bus dropped off the group a few streets from the Simón Bolívar International Bridge, connecting Venezuela and Colombia. Some 5,000 Venezuelans cross on foot every day, with National Guard soldiers stopping some at random.

3 Oct 2019 02:32 ET The Perilous Road Out of Venezuela  WSJ 2

Mr. Morales and Ms. Loyo quickly walked across. As they stepped onto Colombian territory, a look of relief crossed Ms. Loyo's face, despite the weight of her oversize backpack.

Cúcuta, with a population of 750,000, has long been a commerce hub, but many of the Venezuelans who cross over no longer go back. The city has been the main entry point for the 1.4 million who now reside in Colombia.

Venezuelans who have packed their lives into suitcases sit in the city's central park, Santander Square, with dazed looks, often with no plans on how to begin anew. Scores of young Venezuelan sex workers sell their bodies on the street after dark. Many migrants simply start walking, taking days to reach the next city.

Mr. Morales and Ms. Loyo visited Mr. Morales's former neighbor and fellow nurse, Darwin Vásquez, in Cúcuta. He left Caracas  years ago after being robbed of his motorcycle at gunpoint. Now he works as a truck driver and struggles to support his teenage son as well as his family back in Venezuela. He rents out a room to Venezuelan travelers.

"It's been a rough awakening," Mr. Vásquez , pointing to his ripped jeans and the soles coming off his shoes. Without a nurse's license, he can't work in his profession. He provides free advice to neighbors who can't afford medical care.

Mr. Morales and Ms. Loyo found the bustle of Cúcuta a dramatic improvement from Caracas, which shuts down at night because of crime and rolling blackouts. They watched as   calmly strolled the sidewalks and teams of Rollerbladers glided on a public track after dark. They noticed that drivers actually obeyed traffic signals. In Caracas, carjackers target drivers who have stopped at red lights.

Ms. Loyo called home: "Grandma, you're not going to believe what I'm seeing."

A new beginning

 nights later, Mr. Morales and Ms. Loyo took their firstever flight, to Bogotá. There, they took advantage of a sixhour layover to visit Mr. Morales's cousin Glyznel Jiménez, a chemist struggling to get by with a job scaling fish.

Ms. Jiménez and her husband had walked to the Colombian border with their 6yearold daughter on a dirt path earlier this year. They then paid a fee to a gang that controls the illegal routes that lead into Colombia  about $1.50 each. They are considering trying their luck in another South American country.

The Brookings Institution estimates the number of Venezuelan migrants could double to eight million in the next  years, far more than the six million who fled warravaged Syria. Per capita, Venezuelan migrants have seen less than 2% of the international aid that has been committed for Syrian refugees.

While the mass inflow has strained developing nations across Latin America, many of those arriving are trained professionals, new consumers and young workers who could propel growth, Paula Andrea Rossiasco, a Bank migration specialist.

A recent study by the bank estimated that it had cost the Venezuelan state $3 billion in educational investments to train the hundreds of thousands of workingage adults now in Peru, where Ms. Rossiasco is based.

A poll earlier this year in Peru found 34% of Venezuelans there were working jobs that required no training. Just 8% had worked unskilled jobs before leaving Venezuela.

After their visit with Ms. Jiménez, Mr. Morales and Ms. Loyo caught the plane for Lima. There, they slept on the floor of the airport, clutching their luggage, before their next flight. On the flight to Santiago the next day, they glimpsed the snowcapped Andes  a staggering sign that they were far from their tropical homeland.

When they got to the tiny, 21ststory apartment where Mr. Morales's brother lives with his family, nowas home. Jeimison Morales was starting his first day manning the fry station at Kentucky Fried Chicken. His wife was working her sevendayaweek sales gig at a print shop.

The improvised bedroom set aside for Mr. Morales and Ms. Loyo had just enough room for a twin bed. It didn't matter.

"I think this is when the good part begins," Ms. Loyo, dancing a jig in the kitchen as Mr. Morales cooked up a broccoli risotto. The simple ingredients needed for the dish would have taken weeks of work to buy in Venezuela, he .

On their first few nights in their new home, friends and cousins from Caricuao gave them a walking tour. With debts to pay to Ms. Christian, and hoping to send money home to their families, Mr. Morales and Ms. Loyo were soon knocking on doors and filling out applications at restaurants and shoe stores.

Their new neighborhood features Venezuelan barbershops and bodegas. The distinct Caribbeaninfused accents from Venezuela are never far in Chile, where 300,000 Venezuelans now live.

Friends offered advice on bundling up to protect themselves from the Southern Hemisphere winter.

"I'm not too worried," Mr. Morales . "If I get cold, I'll just think of Maduro."



9.


Emerging and Growth Markets, September 21st 2019

Fleeing Venezuelans Seek Refuge in Spain  WSJ


MADRID  As dusk fell on a recent summer evening, clusters of Venezuelans flocked to Madrid's historic Mercado de Maravillas, where, for a few fleeting moments, they were transported back home.

They shopped for imported Venezuelan products and sampled typical dishes like the country's arepas corn cakes at food stalls. Some knocked back Venezuelan beers while chatting about news from their country. Here and there, the yellow, blue and red of the Venezuelan flag adorned the walls.

"Venezuelans come even from far away because they feel at home here," Kelthvyn Martínez, 29 years old, while preparing food for sale.

More than 320,000 Venezuelans now live in Spain, nearly double the 2015 number, part of a growing exodus as the country slides further into poverty and authoritarian rule under President Nicolás Maduro.

More than 3.6 million   have left Venezuela since 2015, reducing its population to about 28 million. The poorest cross the border to Colombia, where their arrival is straining the economy. The wealthier make their way to the U.S., especially Miami. Others, if they have the means, fly to Spain, where they rely on cultural and linguistic ties to get a foothold in Europe.

In some instances, émigrés such as former Caracas Mayor Antonio Ledezma use the country as a base to lobby Madrid and other European capitals to take a hard line on Mr. Maduro's regime. But most are simply trying to escape. Thousands of Venezuelans gathered in Madrid in January to recognize opposition leader Juan Guaidó as the new president.

A few days later, Spain recognized Mr. Guaidó as caretaker president until new elections are held, joining dozens of other countries.

The ties between Venezuelans and Spaniards run deep. Almost half the Venezuelans in Spain already hold a Spanish passport, according to the latest data from Spain's National Statistics Institute, often through grandparents who fled Spain during the civil war and the Franco dictatorship.

Many of the rest tap into existing Venezuelan nerks to negotiate their way through the Spanish bureaucracy or share tips on where to find offthebooks jobs or cheap accommodation until their work permits arrive.

Getting established in Spain isn't necessarily smooth or easy. The process to claim asylum or permanent right to stay can take years. But Spain's government this year began providing temporary protection and work permits to Venezuelans on humanitarian grounds as their applications percolate through the system.

Some experts say Spain could gain from the influx. Its population is quickly graying, with the proportion of the population over 60 years of age projected to rise from around a quarter to 42% by 2050, according to a United Nations study.

"It's hard to dispute that qualified immigrants, younger than Spaniards and with a similar culture, have a positive effect on society in the long run," Jorge Galindo, a Spanish sociologist based in Colombia. "In this respect, Venezuelan immigration is the best you could think of."

Felipe Costales, for instance, applied for asylum in 2016, alleging he was a victim of political persecution. After he received temporary protection from Venezuelan authorities, which entitles him to a work permit, he quickly landed a job as programmer at a company developing control systems for air navigation equipment.

"As soon as I got the permit I found this job," Mr. Costales . "Before, I felt like a nobody, like I was totally vulnerable to everything."

Venezuelans face little of the animosity directed toward migrants from, say, Africa or the Middle East.

"A migrant coming from a Latin American brothercountry, with the same culture, same language, with the sameview, isn't the same as an immigrant coming from an Islamic country," Santiago Abascal, leader of Spain's farright Vox party, at an election rally earlier this year.

More Venezuelans appear set to arrive as Mr. Maduro's government steps up political persecution and supplies of food, medicine and electricity run low. In the first half of this year, around 20,000 Venezuelans sought international protection in Spain, or the same number for the whole of  year and double the figure for 2017.

Luisa Marcano, 50, recalled the food shortages and street gangs that preyed on her and her family in Ciudad Bolívar before she reached Spain 2 1/2 years ago. "We used to line up for eight hours to buy food, sometimes even more thanday," she while having some food with her son at Mr. Martínez's stall at the Maravillas market.

A kindergarten teacher back in Venezuela, she now washes dishes in a restaurant. Her husband is a courier, while in Venezuela he was a taxi driver.

At the other end of the spectrum are wealthy Venezuelans making sizable investments in Spain, snapping up properties in prime locations such as the Salamanca neighborhood, a couple of miles from the Maravillas market.

Patricio Palomar, head of alternative investments at AIRE Partners in Madrid, calculates that Venezuelan investments in real estate have totaled some EUR700 million ($775 million) over the past 10 years.

Other Venezuelans are simply relieved to be alive.

Ricardo Ordóñez, who was a town councilor in northern Venezuela, left his home after a receiving a series of death threats. He he feared for his life, but found peace in Madrid.

"Spain opened its doors to Venezuelans and welcomed us with open arms," he .



9. Global Forex and Fixed Income Roundup: Market Talk



Colombia Foreign Minister Carlos Holmes says his government  lobby for international support to confront the authoritarian regime of Venezuela, accusing the latter of harboring Colombian terrorist groups. Holmes tells BLU Radio that he  seek support from leaders at the UN General Assembly later this month. On Sunday, Colombian magazine Semana cited leaked Colombian intelligence reports indicating that a top Venezuelan military official had given orders to provide support to training camps used by Colombian guerrilla groups within Venezuelan territory. The allegations could further fray relations between both nations amid a massive flow of refugees out of Venezuela and Colombia's government's decision to back Venezuelan opposition leader Juan Guaido's effort to overthrow the Maduro regime. (kejal.vyas@wsj.com; @kejalvyas)

In building an index that tries to measure the effect of President Trump's tweets on rates volatility, JPMorgan finds marketmoving tweets ballooned in frequency during August. The firm says there's "strong evidence that tweets have increasingly moved US rates markets immediately after publication," having played a statistically significant role in elevating implied rates volatility. The "Volfefe index" uses supervised machine learning to scan the president's Twitter feed, which has averaged more than 10 tweets a day since the start of 2016although, during 2018present, only 146 presidential tweets out of about 4,000 were deemed to be market moving. Unsurprisingly, the most common word in a marketmoving Trump tweet is "China." (jonathan.vuocolo@wsj.com; @jonvuocolo)

Sterling has recovered recently as nodeal Brexit risks have receded but there's still no reason for investors to adopt long positions, Ian Tew, Barclays' head of G10 FX spot trading says in a conference call. "There's been a reduction in underweight positions and a topping up of hedges but   are certainly not going long [buying sterling] with any conviction," he says. "It's hard for sterling to rally significantly while we have this political backdrop." Earlier this year investors bought sterling on expectations of a Brexit resolution, but recently these trades have been unwound. Election risks could cause another spike in volatility, he says. Nodeal Brexit chances have fallen from a peak of 55%60% to 25% now, he says. (jessica.fleetham@wsj.com)

Mexico's 2020 federal budget proposal, including a fiscal deficit of 2.6% of GDP and a 0.7% primary surplus, suggests there  be a tilt towards providing modest stimulus to the struggling economy, Capital Economics says. But "the overall picture is that this budget still looks pretty austere ... and, even accounting for some modest slippage, the public debt trajectory doesn't look particularly alarming." Goldman Sachs estimates that the projected deficit would raise public sector debttoGDP by 0.3 percentage point in 2020 to 45.6%. (anthony.harrup@wsj.com)


10. Terrorist Haven Allegations Threaten ColombiaVenezuela Relations  Market Talk
 Colombia Foreign Minister Carlos Holmes says his government  lobby for international support to confront the authoritarian regime of Venezuela, accusing the latter of harboring Colombian terrorist groups. Holmes tells BLU Radio that he  seek support from leaders at the UN General Assembly later this month. On Sunday, Colombian magazine Semana cited leaked Colombian intelligence reports indicating that a top Venezuelan military official had given orders to provide support to training camps used by Colombian guerrilla groups within Venezuelan territory. The allegations could further fray relations between both nations amid a massive flow of refugees out of Venezuela and Colombia's government's decision to back Venezuelan opposition leader Juan Guaido's effort to overthrow the Maduro regime. (kejal.vyas@wsj.com; @kejalvyas)




11. REVIEW & OUTLOOK (Editorial)
Squeezing Venezuela's Comrades

The   of Venezuela continue to suffer under socialist dictator Nicolas Maduro, who is sustained by his patrons in Cuba, Russia and China. So it's welcome news this week that the Trump Administration has toughened sanctions against the regime and its abettors.

The executive order freezes Venezuelan assets in the U.S. and prohibits transactions  directly or indirectly touching the U.S. financial system  with individuals or entities of the Venezuelan government. U.S. national security adviser John Bolton told the International Conference for Democracy in Venezuela on Tuesday that "we are taking this step to deny Maduro access to the global financial system, and to further isolate him internationally. In addition, we are sending a signal to third parties that want to do business with the Maduro regime: proceed with extreme caution."

The regime has already been squeezed by a ban on Venezuelan oil shipments to the U.S. The new measures aim to try to cut the lifelines from Cuba, Russia and China. Sanctioned individuals  be denied entry to the U.S.

The Trump Administration has morality and regional politics on its side. As Mr. Bolton on Tuesday from Lima, Peru, the free   of the hemisphere can't ignore the humanitarian crisis created and maintained by Caracas.

"Maduro uses death squads, trained and equipped by Cuba, to kidnap, imprison, torture, and kill," Mr. Bolton . Families "dig through garbage cans in search of anything to feed themselves and their children" while international "medicine deliveries" are turned away. Putting that on the record before countries that have pledged to defend democracy lays down an important marker.

Most of the more than four million Venezuelan refugees who have fled the once oilrich nation have landed in neighboring countries that lack the resources to easily absorb them. Without regime change in Caracas, the refugee wave could double this year.

Mr. Bolton stressed U.S. support for democratically elected Venezuelan interim President Juan Guaido. "We seek the peaceful transfer of power, but as President Trump has from the beginning: All options are on the table," Mr. Bolton .

That doesn't have to mean war. A waiver for operating in Venezuela until October  granted to Chevron, Halliburton and other U.S. companies at the end of July  may not be renewed. That "will give us an opportunity to land another blow in 80 days," a senior administration official told us on Tuesday.

Cuba is desperate to maintain control of Venezuela because it needs Mr. Maduro's oil to keep its economy afloat. But U.S. measures to deny ships access to U.S. ports if they carry oil from Venezuela to Cuba have reduced the number of available cargo vessels ready to do the job. Shipments to Cuba have been cut by more than half, which means Cuba isn't getting the same return on its investment in secret police and regime enforcers it has sent to Venezuela.

Cuba  try to persuade Mr. Maduro that he can wait out the Trump Presidency, despite shrinking oil revenues, hyperinflation and rising discontent in the army. But at some point Mr. Maduro  have to choose between saving himself or risking his life for the Cuban elite that he finances.


12.

BOGOTÁ, Colombia  President Ivan Duque's government is granting citizenship to more than 24,000 children born here to Venezuelan refugees and considered stateless, providing relief to anguished parents who had fled economic calamity in Venezuela but worried about accessing services in their new home.

"This is such good news," Mariela Martiarena, 31 years old, whose 10monthold daughter, Isabella, was born here in Bogotá after she and her husband, David Hernandez, had fled the Venezuelan capital. "I think this is very good because this is the best for her. She needs everything, like health care. She needs it for her future."

About 1.4 million of the estimated four million Venezuelans who have fled their country have wound up here in Colombia, which shares a long border with Venezuela and has received more Venezuelans than anywhere else. Hundreds of thousands of them settled here without papers, and Colombian government officials and international aid organizations expect many more as Venezuela's economy continues to disintegrate.

Until now, the babies born to Venezuelans who are undocumented  and to those on temporary visas that permit a year stay  had been unable to obtain Colombian citizenship. Because Venezuela's authoritarian government no longer operates consular services in Colombia, new parents couldn't register their newborns as Venezuelans, either.

Those babies, until now, have officially been citizens of no country.

In a press conference on Monday, Mr. Duque government ministries had developed a plan that grants citizenship to babies born to Venezuelan migrants since August 2015 and those who  be born in the next  years. The president by bestowing citizenship, Colombia was meeting international obligations for the treatment of refugees and the commitments set out in its constitution, which puts the rights of children above all others.

"We reaffirm as a nation to the that Colombia, in difficult times, puts fraternity above all else," Mr. Duque . "We support these defenseless children who want the right to nationality. And today, proudly, we tell them they're Colombians."

Humberto Calderon, who represents Venezuela's opposition in Colombia, the new policy was a model to the, which has seen an exodus of Syrian and Central American migrants who have encountered obstacles. "Even with Colombia's limitations," he , "they've taken in our   with so much generosity, without any sign of xenophobia, and given Colombian nationality to 24,000 babies."

Colombia's government considers Mr. Calderon the envoy for Venezuelan opposition leader Juan Guaidó, who Colombia, the U.S. and more than 50 other countries recognize as Venezuela's legitimate leader because President Nicolás Maduro was reelected  year in a vote widely considered fraudulent. Mr. Calderon and other Venezuelans now control the embassy here, and he they are working to get consular services up and running to be able to provide Venezuelan citizenship to babies born here to Venezuelan parents.

Mr. Maduro's government didn't have immediate comment about Colombia's new policy or Mr. Calderon's plans.

Across the Americas, including the U.S., birthright citizenship is automatically granted. Colombia's constitution permits birthright citizenship but regulations called on at leastparent to be here under a certain kind of visa.

"What we did was change that criteria regarding those children because they're not coming here as tourists, nor are they being born here and going elsewhere," Christian Krüger, head of the government's Migration Colombia agency.

Until now, thousands of Venezuelan parents who had gone to the civilregistry agency with their newborns received a birth certificate featuring tiny footprints and the message, "Not valid for citizenship."

"When I went to register, they told me they couldn't give us Colombian nationality because none of us, neither the mom nor I, are Colombians," Javier Pérez, who deserted from Venezuela's National Guard this year. His wife later joined him here and gave birth to a girl.

He there was no way to register her as a Venezuelan, and he has no plans to return to his homeland. "What I want, with my wife and my brother who's with me, is to find work and stay here in Colombia," he .

With Monday's announcement, Ydielyn Tabare, 24, she was going to take her weekold baby, Adelyn Sevilla, to the civil registry and ensure her birth certificate note she is now Colombian. She arrived by bus from central Venezuela  year, began working in a clothing store and became pregnant after her husband, Antonio Sevilla, made it here.

Without paperwork for the baby, she , everything requires more red tape. That includes accessing health services and, in the future, putting her in day care. She they want to eventually emigrate to Spain, where they have relatives. Now, all of this is possible.

"It's such a relief," she . ""Now I can get the paperwork for my daughter. I'm happy."


13.
Teen Love Letters to America

'I came to the United States  years ago," wrote Sara, because of "the civil war which made it unsafe for us to stay" in Yemen. "We had to leave to save our lives." Sara, 13, plans to become a physician.

"A lot of fighting, robbery, murder and political problems" forced Taslima and her family to come to America from Bangladesh three years ago. The eighthgrader intends to be a cardiologist or neurologist. "I  study hard," she promises.

"The situation in our country is horrible," wrote Milagros, 13, about Venezuela. Her family arrived here three years ago "looking for a better place to live." Milagros dreams of becoming the first Latina to start a company valued at $1 billion.

So go three letters from teenagers I recently received. In December the Journal published "Requiem for a Doorman," my essay about Carlos Nino, who'd worked in my apartment building. I knew him for 40 years and called him a friend.

Carlos came to the U.S. from Colombia at 18 with little education or money. A model citizen, he worked  jobs and put both his sons through college. He retired prematurely to care for his ailing wife, only to die of heart failure months after her cancer went into remission.

Soon after my essay appeared, I got a letter from Evelyn Gomez, a veteran socialstudies teacher at IS 235, the Academy for New Americans, a public middle school in Astoria, Queens, that serves newly arrived immigrants from grades six through eight. She had read the piece to her 20 students. Those students then sent me letters, too.

They explained why they had migrated  from Africa, Asia, Europe, Latin America and elsewhere  to the U.S. Some had fled hardship. Most acknowledged pursuing educational and economic opportunities all but unavailable back home. They plan to be computer scientists, lawyers, dentists and mechanical engineers.

I was invited to speak at the school, among the few in New York City that specialize in educating immigrant children. In midMay I gave my talk to some 150 students, teachers and parents. I told why I had honored Carlos in my essay. I revealed my own immigrant history, with both my grandfathers coming here in the early 20th century and eventually starting families and successful businesses. I explained, too, why my essays so often pay tribute to Queens, the most ethnically diverse place on the planet. Finally, I urged the students to write about themselves to benefit generations to come.

Afterward, a student handed me a packet containing handmade cards with personal messages inside from 81 of his schoolmates. Card after card spoke of families coming to our country to seek better lives and better futures.

I could write back to wish these kids luck. But that would feel redundant. Living here now, they're already getting all the luck they'll likely ever need.




14.


U.S. Imposes Sanctions on the Son of Venezuela's President Nicolas Maduro
 The Trump administration has imposed sanctions on the son of Venezuela's embattled President Nicolás Maduro for his involvement in his father's regime.

The new action against Nicolas "Nicolasito" Ernesto MaduroGuerra cites his involvement in Venezuela's National Constituent Assembly, or ANC, a body created by President Maduro to supersede the oppositioncontrolled congress,

Mr. MaduroGuerra was elected as a member of the National Constituent Assembly "following the fraudulent creation of the Assembly, which served only to commandeer the constitutional powers of the legitimate National Assembly and further entrench his father's regime," the Treasury Department in a statement Friday.

A brutal economic crisis marked by food and medicine shortages, along with the's highest inflation, has made Mr. Maduro's leftist government widely unpopular.

Amid growing discontent, the U.S. has supported the rise of Venezuela's National Assembly leader Juan Guaidó as the legitimate leader of Venezuela and endorsed public uprisings against Mr. Maduro. Washington has imposed crippling sanctions on Venezuela's oil sector as well as several officials in the Maduro regime.

The sanctions ban Americans from doing business with any cited individuals or entities and freeze any assets they have in the U.S.




There was no immediate response from Caracas, which routinely rejects U.S. sanctions as part of a campaign to besmirch the selfdeclared leftist government here.

A brutal economic crisis marked by food and medicine shortages, along with the's highest inflation, has made Mr. Maduro's leftist government widely unpopular.

Amid growing discontent, the U.S. has supported the rise of Venezuela's National Assembly leader Juan Guaidó as the legitimate leader of Venezuela and endorsed public uprisings against Mr. Maduro. Washington has imposed crippling sanctions on Venezuela's oil sector as well as several officials in the Maduro regime.

Meanwhile, a new report says the number of Venezuelan migrants fleeing the country's humanitarian crisis could double to 8 million   in the next 18 months, representing onefourth of the nation's total population before the exodus began.

The report from the Organization of American States Venezuela's migration could become the biggest's exodus in decades, surpassing the 6.7 million refugees who have fled wartorn Syria.

The study called for greater international support for South America nations already grappling with an influx of fleeing, impoverished Venezuelans.

"They aren't fleeing voluntarily, they aren't leaving because they want to. They're being forced to flee," David Smolansky, an exiled Venezuelan opposition politician who presented the report at the OAS's annual general assembly in Medellin, Colombia. "This crisis needs a global vision."

The action against Nicolas "Nicolasito" Ernesto MaduroGuerra cites his involvement in Venezuela's National Constituent Assembly a body created by President Maduro to supersede the oppositioncontrolled congress.

He joined more than 100 other Venezuelan officials sanctioned by the U.S. Those sanctions ban Americans from doing business with any cited individuals or entities and freeze any assets they have in the U.S.

Mr. MaduroGuerra was elected as a member of the National Constituent Assembly "following the fraudulent creation of the Assembly, which served only to commandeer the constitutional powers of the legitimate National Assembly and further entrench his father's regime," the Treasury Department in a statement Friday.

There was no immediate response from Caracas, which routinely rejects U.S. sanctions as part of a campaign to besmirch the selfdeclared leftist government here.

A brutal economic crisis marked by food and medicine shortages, along with the's highest inflation, has made Mr. Maduro's leftist government widely unpopular. The nation's economy, which has already contracted by half in recent years, is expected to shrink another 25% this year, according to the International Monetary Fund.

Amid growing discontent, the U.S. has supported the rise of Venezuela's National Assembly leader Juan Guaidó as the legitimate leader of Venezuela and endorsed public uprisings against Mr. Maduro. Washington has imposed crippling sanctions on Venezuela's oil sector as well as several officials in the Maduro regime.

Meanwhile, a new report says the number of Venezuelan migrants fleeing the country's humanitarian crisis could double to 8 million   by the end of 2020, representing onefourth of the nation's total population before the exodus began.

The report from the Organization of American States Venezuela's migration could become the biggest's exodus in decades, surpassing the 6.7 million refugees who have fled wartorn Syria.

"This is a tragedy," Paraguay's deputy foreign relations minister, Antonio Rivas, at the OAS's annual general assembly in the Colombian city of Medellín where the report was released. "It's affecting every country in the region."

The study called for greater international support for South America nations already grappling with an influx of fleeing, impoverished Venezuelans.

"They aren't fleeing voluntarily, they aren't leaving because they want to. They're being forced to flee," David Smolansky, an exiled Venezuelan opposition politician who presented the report. "This crisis needs a global vision."


15. News

Number of Displaced   Hits Postwar Record; According to a new U.N. report, nearly 1% of the's population was displaced at the end of 2018


The number of   fleeing persecution, conflict, violence or humanrights violations, including refugees, asylum seekers and those displaced within their own country, rose by 2.3 million  year, according to the report from the U.N. refugee agency, the UNHCR. The figure is conservative as it doesn't fully capture the rapidly evolving situation in Venezuela, the UNHCR .

Nearly 1% of the's population was displaced at the end of 2018, the report , compared with 0.6% in 2011.

The new Global Trends report comes as migration and refugees have become a central political issue in many countries, including the U.S. and much of Europe. President Trump has kept the issue central in the U.S. political debate[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/trumptolaunchfreshimmigrationoverhaulbid11557956429] and it has crept into the rhetoric of Democratic presidential contenders as they prepare for their first debate later this month.

In Europe, the issue partly fueled the rise of rightwing populists across the region, including in Italy, Germany and the Netherlands, in the runup to the recent elections for the European Parliament. Closing borders and clamping down on asylum seekers has becomeof the few issues uniting European nationalists as they struggle to band together[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/insearchofinfluenceeuropesnationalistsreachtowardapact11556221397] and influence EU policy decisions.

Dealing with the refugee situation is "one of the great challenges of our times," Filippo Grandi, head of the UNHCR.

The U.S. received the most asylum applications  year, at about 254,300, down from 331,700 in 2017. Almost all came from El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Mexico and Venezuela. The next largest recipients were Peru with 192,500 and Germany with 161,900. At the end of 2018, the U.S. had more than 700,000 asylum applications to process, more than any other country.

Almost 350,000 Venezuelans escaping political unrest and the collapse of the country's economy sought asylum in other countries in 2018, accounting for 20% ofwide asylum requests and making them the singlebiggest group by nationality. About 3.4 million Venezuelans have left the country in recent years and with another 5,000 a day departing, the total could hit 5 million this year, according to the report. That would be almostin every six Venezuelans.

Most of the's 26 million refugees, defined as those forced to leave their country, about half of whom are younger than 18, are from Syria, Afghanistan and South Sudan, the UNHCR . Syria alone accounts for 6.7 million of the total, with most of those having left their country between 2012 and 2015. Another 6.2 million Syrians have been displaced within the country.

For a fifth successive year, Turkey hosted the most refugees in 2018 at 3.7 million, followed by Pakistan. Aboutin six   living in Lebanon is a refugee, the largest proportion in the. The U.S. hosted 313,200 refugees at the end of  year, about the same as China.

 year's largest new displacement was the 1.6 million Ethiopians who fled their homes due to ethnic violence, with the vast majority staying inside the country. Ethiopia  year became the largest host of Somali refugees, complicating the country's challenge further.



16. Latin America News

BOGOTÁ, Colombia—Venezuela's political opposition welcomed funds from private donors and foreign governments as the movement to remove authoritarian leader Nicolás Maduro gained momentum earlier this year, with money earmarked to help hundreds of Venezuelan soldiers who defected to neighboring Colombia.

But now, accusations that  opposition activists pilfered tens of thousands of dollars from those funds are threatening to become an embarrassment for a coalition that is heavily dependent on the largess of dozens of countries, including the U.S., which is allied with its chief, Juan Guaidó.[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/tensofthousandsprotestvenezuelanpresidentmaduro11548264274?mod=article_inline]

On Tuesday, Mr. Guaidó's aides in Bogotá, scrambling to contain political fallout that could curtail foreign aid in the future, requested that Colombian prosecutors investigate how the  activists allegedly embezzled as much as $60,000.

The money, from private donations, had been allotted to pay some of the costs of hotel rooms, meals and transportation incurred by Venezuelan military deserters, whom Mr. Guaidó had heralded as heroes after they broke from Mr. Maduro and crossed the border to Colombia.

The  accused activists, Rossana Barrera and Kevin Rojas, had been appointed to manage some $100,000. They haven't been charged and couldn't be reached for comment.

More

 How 7.4 Tons of Venezuela's Gold Landed in Africa—and Vanished[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/how74tonsofvenezuelasgoldlandedinafricaandvanished11560867792] (June 18)

 Venezuelans' Latest Woe: Gas Lines That  for Days on End[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/venezuelanslatesegaslinesthatfordaysonend11560159002] (June 10)

 In a Blow to Maduro, Russia Withdraws Key Defense Support to Venezuela[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/inablowtomadurorussiawithdrawskeydefensesupporttovenezuela11559486826] (June 2)

 Venezuela Negotiators Agree to New Round of Talks[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/venezuelanegotiatorsagreetonewroundoftalks11558830760] (May 25)

 Maduro Moves to Reassert Authority, Arrest Opposition Leaders[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/maduromovestoreassertauthorityarrestoppositionleaders11556836138?mod=searchresults&page=3&pos=8&mod=article_inline] (May 2)

 Venezuela Crisis: Violence Erupts as Guaidó Calls for Uprising[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/venezuelasguaidosayshehassupportfrommembersofmilitary11556622855] (May 1)

Humberto Calderón Berti, Mr. Guaidó's representative in Bogotá, he requested the Colombians investigate because the opposition wants to differentiate itself from Mr. Maduro's regime, which is accused of rampant graft. The watchdog organization Transparency International says Venezuela is perceived asof the most corrupt in the, ranking 168 of 180 countries.

"Our message to the country is that we're different, we are going to act with absolute transparency," Mr. Calderón in a press conference Tuesday at the attorney general's office here after meeting Colombia's top prosecutor, Fabio Espitia Garzón.

The allegations, made public earlier by the PanAm Post, an antiMaduro news site, come as Mr. Guaidó's movement has lost momentum against Mr. Maduro after a fivemonth pressure campaign of street demonstrations and international sanctions that have failed to unseat him.[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/howplantooustvenezuelanleaderfellapart11556926683]

A recent poll by Venezuelan pollster DatinCorp found that about 36% of respondents recognized the young opposition leader as Venezuela's legitimate president, down from 49% in February. Mr. Maduro was seen as president by 41%, up from 34% of respondents, though Venezuelans blame him for the economic mismanagement that has caused hyperinflation, food shortages and the exodus of millions of migrants.

Mr. Guaidó is facing increased pressure from factions within his own opposition coalition who reject recent negotiations brokered by Norway[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/venezuelanegotiatorsagreetonewroundoftalks11558830760] and advocate foreign intervention to remove Mr. Maduro.

"In reality, there's onlyreal option on the table. That option is force,"opposition leader pushing for the hardline approach, María Corina Machado, in a June 12 public letter to Mr. Guaidó.

At the same time, highranking officials in the Maduro government, most of whom face U.S. sanctions for alleged corruption and rights abuses, were quick to take advantage of the allegations against their rivals.

Mr. Maduro's attorney general in Venezuela, Tarek William Saab, that "villas and castles" were promised to deserting Venezuelan military officers "but they were left in the street."

He blamed Mr. Guaidó, whom the regime considers a traitor, for the alleged embezzlement. "He should be ashamed, making declarations when he's head of a corruption Mafia," he .

Legal advisers working with Mr. Calderón they found evidence that the accused activists filed overpriced and fictitious hotel invoices. Mr. Guaidó's administration has been the beneficiary of more than $90 million in humanitarian aid from the governments of Canada, the U.S., the U.K. and Germany. The funds, Mr. Guaidó , are largely managed by the donors and not by the group of Maduro opponents he heads. He noted that the money for the soldiers was separate from humanitarian donations from foreign governments.

"We're not going to let this hurt and smear all of the effort that we've made" on humanitarian aid matters, Lester Toledo, a Venezuelan lawmaker in exile who is working with Mr. Guaidó's team. "The first thing that we should be asking for is prison for the corrupt ones."

Colombia's attorney general's office it would begin an inquiry that could lead to a formal investigation.

For Mr. Calderón, what to do with military defectors has become a serious dilemma when Colombia has already received 1.3 million Venezuelans fleeing their country.

Many of the soldiers had crossed into Colombia heeding Mr. Guaidó's illfated call on Feb. 23 to foment a military rebellion.[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/venezuelantroopsdefectamidshowdownatborder11550931389] They later grew disgruntled after Colombian officials and   in Mr. Guaidó's camp told them they would not be converted into a mercenary force. In recent weeks, the Colombian government stopped paying their hotel bills, instead offering monthly stipends and work permits so they could settle into civilian life.

Mr. Calderón Colombian intelligence authorities told him  months ago to look into alleged misappropriation of money earmarked for the deserters.

"Unfortunately, in our country, we have grown accustomed after 20 years of a dictatorial regime to brush off these acts," Mr. Calderón told reporters.

With hunger spreading, Venezuelans have an increased intolerance for graft and a serious investigation could help draw a distinction between Mr. Guaidó's movement and Mr. Maduro's government, Moisés Naím, a Venezuelan author and former trade minister. The regime in Caracas is blamed for squandering hundreds of billions of dollars of oil revenue through graft, bankrupting what was once Latin America's wealthiest nation, economists say.

Mr. Maduro's government has such claims are designed to debilitate his government.

"This can be a golden opportunity for Guaidó," Mr. Naím .




17. Latin America News

Violence Makes Mexico an Unwelcoming Refuge; As U.S. asks neighbor to take in asylum seekers, women in a Tijuana shelter describe the dangers


The Madre Asunta shelter houses 120 women near the U.S. border in Tijuana, Mexico, including some residents who fled violence in the southern state of Guerrero. PHOTO: Sandy Huffaker for The Wall Street Journal

TIJUANA, Mexico—  from Mexico's impoverished south used to migrate to the U.S. in the hopes of getting a better paying job. Nowadays, many are fleeing violence.

As President Trump threatens to impose import tariffs[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/trumppressuresmexicoasseconddayofbordertalksbegin11559826586] on Monday unless Mexico does more to stem the northern flow[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/trumptiesmexicotariffthreatstoheftyimmigrationdemands11559332126] of Central Americans, his administration has called on Mexico to require migrants to request asylum there instead of the U.S. by declaring itself a "safe third country."

Current negotiations between senior U.S. and Mexico officials to contain the migrant tide have touched on such a designation, which could be costly and risks overwhelming border communities. Left unsaid is something migration analysts and security experts say is indisputable: Mexico isn't a safe country.

The surge in migration from Central America and the northbound caravans that infuriated Mr. Trump have eclipsed a silent exodus of Mexicans fleeing the lawlessness of what is known as "untamed Mexico."

"You can hear gunshots while you dress your children for school," Elida Nava, who fled Guerrero state with her three children and hopes to join her husband in Washington, D.C. Her brother was kidnapped recently by presumed members of a drug gang not far from her home near a glitzy beach resort in Mexico's south.

"Kids are afraid to go out, and their only aspiration is to join a gang," Ms. Nava at a shelter in Tijuana.

While fewer Mexicans are migrating north, those that do nowadays often cite violence as the reason, according to migration experts and interviews with dozens of migrants. Some 11,000 Mexicans requested asylum in the U.S. in fiscal year 2018.

The murder rate in Mexico hit a record high  year at 27 per 100,000  , compared with about 5 per 100,000 in the U.S. Rates are still rising, making Mexicoof the's most dangerous countries[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/400murdersadaythecrisisoflatinamerica1537455390]. Nearlyin four global murders takes place in Mexico, Brazil, Venezuela or Colombia, according to U.N. homicide statistics[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/murderbythenumbers1537476801].

"I don't think Mexico is in the condition to become a safe third country primarily due to the weakness of its institutions," Stephanie Leutert, director of the Mexico Security Initiative, a research program at the University of Texas at Austin. Public security institutions in Mexico have never been able to protect migrants and refugees from crime, she .

 teen migrants from Honduras who were part of a caravan  year were stabbed and strangled in Tijuana.

Mexican migration to the U.S. has fallen sharply over the past 15 years, partly due to a slight aging of the population that means fewer young   looking for jobs, as well as economic development and growing middle class. In 2007, some 800,000 Mexicans were apprehended at the southwest border.  year, it was roughly 155,000.

Central America, meanwhile, has sent greater numbers north. In 2007, 54,000 Central Americans from Guatemala, El Salvador and Honduras were apprehended at the U.S. border[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/usmexicoofficialsholdtalksonborderdispute11559741536]. That number swelled to nearly 226,000  year.

A safethirdcountry designation—such as Canada and the U.S. adopted in a 2002 agreement—could flood communities along Mexico's borders with asylum seekers who cite violence as a reason for fleeing.

While parts of Mexico have developed, there are still swaths of the country that more closely resemble Central America than the rest of North America.

In Guerrero state, from the workingclass suburbs of the onceelegant Pacific beach resort of Acapulco to opiumpoppy growing mountain villages close to a road known as "the corridor of death,"[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/usherointraderootedinmexicoscorridorofdeath1501839001] rampant murder and extortion have forced residents to flee to survive.

"It's like a steady drip.day a family leaves, anotherflees the following morning," the Rev. Jesús Mendoza, a Catholic priest who has served in Guerrero communities for 40 years.

The population of Acapulco's La Laja slum, where he was parish priest for many years, fell sharply after a criminal organization began to use the area as their base.

"You began to see empty houses, families were no longer there. If they had relatives in the U.S., they had better chances," Father Mendoza .

SHARE YOUR THOUGHTS

How should nations handle   fleeing violence in Mexico and Central America? Join the conversation below.

In villages where smallplot farmers have long cultivated opium poppies and criminal gangs fight for control of the heroin trade, a sharp drop in prices for opium poppies due to the rise of synthetic opioids has fueled migration, Bishop Salvador Rangel of Chilpancingo, Guerrero's state capital.

Some 5,700 migrants from Guerrero were deported by U.S. authorities in the first three months of this year, more than from any other state in Mexico. In 2018, the number was close to 23,000, a fiveyear high, according to Mexican government figures.

Ms. Nava, the mother of three, is among 120 migrant women staying at the Madre Asunta shelter, an overcrowded house run by Scalabrinian nuns across the border from San Diego, California.

The shelter, in the hills of Tijuana, usually houses 45  . Its backyard is filled with children. Mary Galván, a social worker at Madre Asunta for 25 years, she sees far more   fleeing violence nowadays than economic migrants.

Adelina Morales, a young migrant from Guerrero staying at Madre Asunta, was employed as a certified translator of the indigenous Mixtec language, but fled in early April after her father was killed and she received death threats.



 Trump Pressures Mexico as Second Day of Border Talks Begin[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/trumppressuresmexicoasseconddayofbordertalksbegin11559826586] (June 6)

 Border Arrests Climb Amid Threat of Tariffs[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/usmexicoofficialsholdtalksonborderdispute11559741536] (June 5)

 Trump Ties Mexico Tariff Threats to Hefty Immigration Demands[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/trumptiesmexicotariffthreatstoheftyimmigrationdemands11559332126] (May 31)

 Latin America Is the Murder Capital of the[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/400murdersadaythecrisisoflatinamerica1537455390] (Sept. 20, 2018)

She says she doesn't have a death certificate or police report to show U.S. officials what happened. "The authorities told me not to file a criminal complaint, otherwise I'd be killed too," she .

In late April, U.S. Customs and Border Protection officials found a 3yearold boy crying alone in a cornfield in Texas. He was from Acapulco, and was abandoned by professional smugglers hired by relatives in Guerrero to take him to his parents in the U.S., Mexican authorities told The Wall Street Journal.

His story, at least, has a happy ending: After spending more than a month in U.S. custody, the boy was reunited with his parents in New York with the help of lawyers working for Mexico's government, a senior Mexican diplomat.

The boy was ultimately saved because he had his name and a phone number written on his shoes.




18. Invasion Is Unwise as Venezuela Isn't Grenada

Regarding Sen. Lindsey Graham's "Match Words With Actions in Venezuela, Mr. President" (oped, May 23): Sen. Graham argues that "the U.S. must be willing to intervene in Venezuela the way we did in Grenada  this nightmare in Venezuela must end for the good of the region and for the sake of democracy."

While I agree with Sen. Graham that the Venezuelan   have suffered enough, the administration should think twice before the U.S. helicopters descend on the Palacio de Miraflores in Caracas. What happens on day ?

Venezuela is a large, complex country politically, not a tiny island in the Caribbean. Juan Guaido, president of the National Assembly, has already tried a "popular uprising" and that failed. The Venezuelan military is indebted to President Nicolas Maduro for their perks and subsidies. They are not going to give them up easily. Political corruption is endemic in the system from the top down. The Cubans and others are embedded in Venezuela's security apparatus. The country has a long history of violent repression of popular uprisings by the military. What is going to happen when subsidies are removed from gasoline, food and other necessities? History would indicate that the streets of Caracas  be filled with violent protests. Does the U.S. want to be in the middle of that?

Stay the course and be patient. Let the Venezuelan   decide their route to a free democratic society.


The countries most affected by Venezuela's dysfunctional government are its neighbors: Colombia and Brazil, which have taken in millions of refugees. Let them invade Venezuela.

Although we "won" in Grenada, I suspect that the Cubans didn't view it as much of a loss. Venezuela, however, provides oil to Cuba, a resource for which the Cubans are likely to fight. Sen. Graham states that: "A free, democratic Venezuela has the potential to be a great economic and nationalsecurity partner to the U.S." Sure. And I have the potential to win the Powerball lottery.



Such a move with the Russians in the background could lead to a disastrous intervention that could escalate into a real catastrophe for the   of Venezuela. Moreover, it not only could lead to American service members losing their lives but the alienation of most Latin American countries from the U.S. Both the Lima Group and the Organization of American States have resolutely voted against foreign intervention in Venezuela.

It should be noted that the U.S. considered seriously intervening in Venezuela, in 1904 and in 1917 Presidents Theodore Roosevelt and Woodrow Wilson, respectively, decided against intervention because the country was too large to secure militarily, which is the main reason the Venezuelan situation shouldn't be compared with Grenada's.





19. Venezuelan Deserters Set For Long Stay  WSJ


CÚCUTA, Colombia  When Gabriel Pérez fled for this Colombian border city after defecting from Venezuela's military, he thought he and hundreds of other military deserters would soon launch an incursion to topple the autocrat back home.

That isn't how things worked out. Three months later, he is still in Colombia and is being told if he wants to stay, he had better get a job.

"We didn't come to build a life here in Colombia. We came to defend Venezuela," Mr. Pérez, a 28yearold former sergeant in Venezuela's National Guard. "We thought they were going to have a plan for us to return."

About 1,400 former Venezuelan state security officers are living in hotels in Cúcuta at the expense of the Colombian government, which, along with the U.S., isof the main supporters of Venezuela's opposition.

The first deserters began arriving in February, when opposition leaders launched an illfated plan to get the military to break with President Nicolás Maduro by disobeying orders to block humanitarian aid. While the plan failed to spark a mutiny, the soldiers who fled to Colombia were praised by the opposition as brave heroes. In Washington, they were held up as evidence of the growing cracks in the armed forces' support for Mr. Maduro, as deserters recounted going hungry, living off rice, beans and arepas, the Venezuelan cornbread.

Now, many of the soldiers in Cúcuta feel let down, both by the opposition, and by Colombia and the U.S. Though no such promises were given, they thought they would become the Venezuelanversion of the Contras, the U.S.backed rebel force that launched incursions against Nicaragua's leftist government in the 1980s from Honduras during Central America's bloody civil wars.

The State Department declined to comment, and opposition figures didn't respond to requests for comment. Colombian President Iván Duque  week that a military intervention wasn't the solution to Venezuela's crisis.

The idea of arming the soldiers and sending them back into Venezuela was spurred on by opposition hardliners. Among them was a former highranking Venezuelan officer who envisioned opposition leader Juan Guaidó providing authorization to arm about 1,000 men who would train in Colombia and Brazil and sneak into Venezuela to overthrow Mr. Maduro.

U.S. and Colombian officials concerned about sparking a regional conflict quickly quashed the idea. Likewise, Colombian officials opposed soldiers crossing back into Venezuela on April 30, when Mr. Guaidó called for an uprising that quickly fizzled out.

"What we want to do doesn't have Duque's endorsement," the former highranking officer . The former officer he still believes the use of force is the only way to unseat Mr. Maduro.

The former soldiers now ponder what to do in a country where they don't want to live. Instead of preparing for battle, they spend their days in this city of about 700,000 lounging around hotel rooms watching TV to escape the city's broiling heat. At night, some play soccer while others discuss the latest news from back home.

They grumble that Venezuela's opposition now ignores them, fueling criticism that Mr. Maduro's foes and their international allies missed an opportunity to show members of Venezuela's armed forces that they would be treated well if they abandoned the regime.

Colombia's government, struggling with a surge of Venezuelan migrants estimated at 1.2 million, is irritated that it was left to pay the growing bill. Officials told the Venezuelan deserters recently that they could take a onetime payment of $120 and leave Colombia for Ecuador, Peru or another country. Otherwise they would get $75 a month over the next three months plus a residency permit allowing them to stay in Colombia and work.

"We've made an exception for them because they're a special group," Felipe Muñoz, a Colombian official who is in charge of overseeing the border region. "These are benefits that no other migrant has in Colombia."

Mr. Muñoz says Colombia's government is currently paying about $12,000 a day for the hotel bills for the former Venezuelan soldiers in Cúcuta until they get residency permits that allow them to work.

The Venezuelan government, meanwhile, has used the ordeal in Cúcuta for propaganda purposes. Venezuela's staterun media recently showed soldiers being evicted from their hotels with their families, though the circumstances couldn't be determined.

The opposition was initially upbeat about the arrival of the soldiers in Cúcuta. The soldiers referred to Mr. Guaidó as their commander, while he applauded their "courage and patriotic spirit."

"Together we'll achieve freedom and rescue Venezuela," Mr. Guaidó as he met with the first group of deserters.

More recently, Mr. Guaidó's ambassador in Colombia, Humberto Calderón, told the deserters that they had no choice but to takeof Colombia's offers. In a meeting with some soldiers, he added that "noordered you to leave the country," according to the deserters.

Orlando, a 35yearold army sergeant, trekked across remote jungle paths into Colombia after hearing that Mr. Guaidó met with other deserters, believing the opposition would form an army. He was itching to head back to Venezuela on April 30 to support Mr. Guaidó's call for an uprising.

"We wanted to cross into Venezuela to see if we could finally liberate our country, but we had noto support us. We can't cross over with rocks," he . "It hasn't turned out as we'd hoped."

The Venezuelan officers in Cúcuta say there is no way they can go back to Venezuela now, fearing retribution for themselves and their families for abandoning Mr. Maduro. Mr. Pérez, the former sergeant, the three months of support won't cover expenses for his wife and  young children, whom he brought here. He is trying to make extra money by selling water on the street.

"We now feel abandoned because they haven't provided the support that we wanted," he of the Venezuelan opposition.

Javier Pérez, his 22yearold brother, a former National Guard sergeant, they fear they  be jailed if they return to Venezuela. He is now thinking of bringing his pregnant wife to Cúcuta while he starts a small operation selling hot dogs on the street.

"We don't have enough money for anything," he . "The only option is to work here."


20.

Venezuela Negotiators Agree to New Round of Talks; U.S. says it supports Oslo talks if they lead to the ouster of Nicolás Maduro and free elections

Both sides of Venezuela's political divide agreed to hold a new round of negotiations, Norway's foreign ministry Saturday, as Oslo looks to mediate a solution to the South American nation's political standoff and humanitarian crisis.

Representatives of authoritarian leader Nicolás Maduro and his rival, Juan Guaidó, who is backed by the U.S.[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/tensofthousandsprotestvenezuelanpresidentmaduro11548264274] and more than 50 other nations as Venezuela's legitimate president, are slated to meet in Oslo next week, according to Norway's Ministry of Foreign Affairs. "Norway commends the parties for their efforts and appreciates their disposition," the ministry in a statement.

The negotiations come after both sides met separately with Norwegian mediators earlier this month for a preliminary round of talks held at Oslo's invitation. Norway, which has a long record of mediating peace processes from Colombia to Sri Lanka to the Philippines, has offered to help broker an end to a debilitating crisis that has brought Venezuela, once Latin America's most prosperous nation, to financial ruin, spreading hunger and a mass exodus of millions of refugees to neighboring countries.

Related

 Venezuela's Opposition Came Close to Ousting the President—but the Plan Fell Apart[https://wwwwsjcom.ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/articles/howplantooustvenezuelanleaderfellapart11556926683] (May 3)

Venezuela's Information Ministry didn't immediately respond to a request for comment. Mr. Guaidó, speaking at a rally in the western town of Carora on Saturday, told his supporters he would send a delegation to Norway and insisted that his side would hold firm on its demand for a transfer of power that paves the way to presidential elections.

"As we have repeatedly stated, we believe the only thing to negotiate with Nicolás Maduro is the conditions of his departure," U.S. State Department spokeswoman Morgan Ortagus . "We hope the talks in Oslo  focus on that objective, and if they do, we hope progress  be possible."

Norway's effort comes after a series of failed negotiations in recent years between the opposition and Mr. Maduro, whose detractors accuse him of using talks to divide rivals and buy time.

Publicly, Mr. Maduro has supported Norwayfacilitated talks. But the leader, who says he is the victim of a U.S.led effort to overthrow his leftist government, has dismissed any notion of ceding power. His May 2018 reelection was boycotted by the opposition and was widely deemed a sham, opening his government to intensifying international sanctions.

In January, Mr. Guaidó, as the head of the national assembly, invoked the constitution and took an oath as interim president in a direct challenge to Mr. Maduro. But numerous street demonstrations
 
